.TH OS Monitoring Application 6 "os_mon 2.11.2" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
OS Monitoring Application
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "Description"

.PP
The operating system monitor, OS_Mon, provides the following services:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIcpu_sup\fR CPU load and utilization supervision (Unix)

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIdisksup\fR Disk supervision(Unix, Windows)

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fImemsup\fR Memory supervision (Unix, Windows)

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIos_sup\fR Interface to OS system messages (Solaris, Windows)

.RE

.PP
To simplify usage of OS_Mon on distributed Erlang systems, it is not considered an error trying to use a service at a node where it is not available (either because OS_Mon is not running, or because the service is not available for that OS, or because the service is not started). Instead, a warning message is issued via \fIerror_logger\fR and a dummy value is returned, which one is specified in the man pages for the respective services.

.SS "Configuration"

.PP
When OS_Mon is started, by default all services available for the OS, except \fIos_sup\fR, are automatically started. This configuration can be changed using the following application configuration parameters:

start_cpu_sup = bool()
.RS 2
Specifies if 
\fIcpu_sup\fR should be started. Defaults to \fItrue\fR.

.RE

start_disksup = bool()
.RS 2
Specifies if 
\fIdisksup\fR should be started. Defaults to \fItrue\fR.

.RE

start_memsup = bool()
.RS 2
Specifies if 
\fImemsup\fR should be started. Defaults to \fItrue\fR.

.RE

start_os_sup = bool()
.RS 2
Specifies if 
\fIos_sup\fR should be started. Defaults to \fIfalse\fR.

.RE

.PP
Configuration parameters effecting the different OS_Mon services are described in the respective man pages.

.PP
See config for information about how to change the value of configuration parameters.

.SS "See Also"

.PP
\fIcpu_sup\fR, \fIdisksup\fR, \fImemsup\fR, \fIos_sup\fR, \fInteventlog\fR, \fIsnmp\fR.

