.TH auth 3 "kernel 10.6.1" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
auth \- Erlang network authentication server.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
For a description of the Magic Cookie system, refer to Distributed Erlang in the Erlang Reference Manual.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBcookie() :: atom().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBcookie() -> Cookie when Cookie :: cookie().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: auth:cookie/0 is deprecated; use erlang:get_cookie/0 instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Use \fIerlang:get_cookie()\fR in ERTS instead.


.RE
.B
\fBcookie(TheCookie) -> true\fR
\fB                when TheCookie :: Cookie | [Cookie], Cookie :: cookie().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: auth:cookie/1 is deprecated; use erlang:set_cookie/2 instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Use \fIerlang:set_cookie(node(), Cookie)\fR in ERTS instead.


.RE
.B
\fBis_auth(Node) -> yes | no when Node :: node().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: auth:is_auth/1 is deprecated; use net_adm:ping/1 instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fIyes\fR if communication with \fINode\fR is authorized.

.PP
Use \fInet_adm:ping(Node)\fR instead.

.PP
Notice that a connection to \fINode\fR is established in this case. Returns \fIno\fR if \fINode\fR does not exist or communication is not authorized (it has another cookie than \fIauth\fR thinks it has).


.RE
.B
\fBnode_cookie(Cookies :: [node() | cookie(), ...]) -> yes | no.\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: auth:node_cookie/1 is deprecated; use erlang:set_cookie/2 and net_adm:ping/1 instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Equivalent to \fInode_cookie(Node, Cookie)\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBnode_cookie(Node, Cookie) -> yes | no\fR
\fB                     when Node :: node(), Cookie :: cookie().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: auth:node_cookie/2 is deprecated; use erlang:set_cookie/2 and net_adm:ping/1 instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the magic cookie of \fINode\fR to \fICookie\fR and verifies the status of the authorization.

.PP
Equivalent to calling \fIerlang:set_cookie(Node, Cookie)\fR, followed by \fIauth:is_auth(Node)\fR.


.RE
