.TH crypto 3 "crypto 5.8.3" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
crypto \- Crypto Functions

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This module provides a set of cryptographic functions.


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fBHash functions\fR -

SHA1, SHA2
.RS 2
Secure Hash Standard (FIPS PUB180-4)


.RE
SHA3
.RS 2
SHA-3 Standard: Permutation-Based Hash and Extendable-Output Functions (FIPS PUB 202)


.RE

BLAKE2
.RS 2
BLAKE2 — fast secure hashing


.RE

SM3
.RS 2
The SM3 Hash Function (GM/T 0004-2012)


.RE

MD5
.RS 2
The MD5 Message Digest Algorithm (RFC 1321)


.RE

MD4
.RS 2
The MD4 Message Digest Algorithm (RFC 1320)


.RE

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fBMACs - Message Authentication Codes\fR -

Hmac functions
.RS 2
Keyed-Hashing for Message Authentication (RFC 2104)


.RE

Cmac functions
.RS 2
The AES-CMAC Algorithm (RFC 4493)


.RE

POLY1305
.RS 2
ChaCha20 and Poly1305 for IETF Protocols (RFC 7539)


.RE

.RE

Symmetric Ciphers
.RS 2


DES, 3DES and AES
.RS 2
Block Cipher Techniques (NIST)


.RE

Blowfish
.RS 2
Fast Software Encryption, Cambridge Security Workshop Proceedings (December 1993), Springer-Verlag, 1994, pp. 191-204.


.RE

Chacha20
.RS 2
ChaCha20 and Poly1305 for IETF Protocols (RFC 7539)


.RE

Chacha20_poly1305
.RS 2
ChaCha20 and Poly1305 for IETF Protocols (RFC 7539)


.RE

SM4
.RS 2
The SM4 Block Cipher Algorithm


.RE


.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fBModes\fR -

ECB, CBC, CFB, OFB and CTR
.RS 2
Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Methods and Techniques (NIST SP 800-38A)


.RE

GCM
.RS 2
Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Galois/Counter Mode (GCM) and GMAC (NIST SP 800-38D)


.RE

CCM
.RS 2
Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: The CCM Mode for Authentication and Confidentiality (NIST SP 800-38C)


.RE

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fBAsymmetric Ciphers - Public Key Techniques\fR -

RSA
.RS 2
PKCS #1: RSA Cryptography Specifications (RFC 3447)


.RE

DSS
.RS 2
Digital Signature Standard (DSS) (FIPS 186-4)


.RE

ECDSA
.RS 2
Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA)


.RE

SRP
.RS 2
The SRP Authentication and Key Exchange System (RFC 2945)


.RE

.RE

.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRThe actual supported algorithms and features depends on their availability in the actual libcrypto used. See the crypto (App) about dependencies. Enabling FIPS mode will also disable algorithms and features.


.PP
The CRYPTO User's Guide has more information on FIPS, Engines and Algorithm Details like key lengths.

.SS "Exceptions"

.PP
\fBAtoms - the older style\fR

.PP
The exception \fIerror:badarg\fR signifies that one or more arguments are of wrong data type, or are otherwise badly formed.

.PP
The exception \fIerror:notsup\fR signifies that the algorithm is known but is not supported by current underlying libcrypto or explicitly disabled when building that.

.PP
For a list of supported algorithms, see supports(ciphers).

.PP
\fB3-tuples - the new style\fR

.PP
The exception is:

.IP
.nf
error:{Tag, C_FileInfo, Description}

Tag = badarg | notsup | error
C_FileInfo = term()    % Usually only useful for the OTP maintainer
Description = string() % Clear text, sometimes only useful for the OTP maintainer

.fi

.PP
The exception tags are:

badarg
.RS 2
Signifies that one or more arguments are of wrong data type or are otherwise badly formed.


.RE

notsup
.RS 2
Signifies that the algorithm is known but is not supported by current underlying libcrypto or explicitly disabled when building that one.


.RE

error
.RS 2
An error condition that should not occur, for example a memory allocation failed or the underlying cryptolib returned an error code, for example 
\fI"Can't initialize context, step 1"\fR. Those text usually needs searching the C-code to be understood.

.RE

.PP
Usually there are more information in the call stack about which argument caused the exception and what the values where.

.PP
To catch the exception, use for example:

.IP
.nf
try crypto:crypto_init(Ciph, Key, IV, true)
    catch
        error:{Tag, _C_FileInfo, Description} ->
            do_something(......)
         .....
end

.fi

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBblake2() :: blake2b | blake2s.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBcipher() :: cipher_no_iv() | cipher_iv() | cipher_aead().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBcipher_aead() ::\fR
\fB          aes_128_ccm | aes_192_ccm | aes_256_ccm | aes_ccm |\fR
\fB          aes_128_gcm | aes_192_gcm | aes_256_gcm | aes_gcm | sm4_gcm |\fR
\fB          sm4_ccm | chacha20_poly1305.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Ciphers known by the CRYPTO application.

.PP
Note that this list might be reduced if the underlying libcrypto does not support all of them.


.RE
.B
\fBcipher_iv() ::\fR
\fB          aes_128_cbc | aes_192_cbc | aes_256_cbc | aes_cbc |\fR
\fB          aes_128_ofb | aes_192_ofb | aes_256_ofb | aes_128_cfb128 |\fR
\fB          aes_192_cfb128 | aes_256_cfb128 | aes_cfb128 | aes_128_cfb8 |\fR
\fB          aes_192_cfb8 | aes_256_cfb8 | aes_cfb8 | aes_128_ctr |\fR
\fB          aes_192_ctr | aes_256_ctr | aes_ctr | sm4_cbc | sm4_ofb |\fR
\fB          sm4_cfb | sm4_ctr | blowfish_cbc | blowfish_cfb64 |\fR
\fB          blowfish_ofb64 | chacha20 | des_ede3_cbc | des_ede3_cfb |\fR
\fB          des_cbc | des_cfb | rc2_cbc.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBcipher_no_iv() ::\fR
\fB          aes_128_ecb | aes_192_ecb | aes_256_ecb | aes_ecb |\fR
\fB          blowfish_ecb | des_ecb | sm4_ecb | rc4.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBcmac_cipher_algorithm() ::\fR
\fB          aes_128_cbc | aes_192_cbc | aes_256_cbc | aes_cbc |\fR
\fB          blowfish_cbc | des_cbc | des_ede3_cbc | rc2_cbc.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBcompatibility_only_hash() :: md5 | md4.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The \fIcompatibility_only_hash/0\fR algorithms are recommended only for compatibility with existing applications.


.RE
.B
\fBcrypto_integer() :: binary() | integer().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBcrypto_opt() :: {encrypt, boolean()} | {padding, padding()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Selects encryption (\fI{encrypt,true}\fR) or decryption (\fI{encrypt,false}\fR).


.RE
.B
\fBcrypto_opts() :: boolean() | [crypto_opt()].\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fB-opaque crypto_state() \fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBcryptolib_padding() :: none | pkcs_padding.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The \fIcryptolib_padding\fR are paddings that may be present in the underlying cryptolib linked to the Erlang/OTP crypto app.

.PP
For OpenSSL, see the OpenSSL documentation. and find \fIEVP_CIPHER_CTX_set_padding()\fR in cryptolib for your linked version.


.RE
.B
\fBdh_params() :: [key_integer()].\fR

.br
.RS
.IP
.nf
dh_params() = [P, G] | [P, G, MaxPrivateKeyBitLength]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdh_private() :: key_integer().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBdh_public() :: key_integer().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBdss_digest_type() :: sha1() | sha2().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBdss_private() :: [key_integer()].\fR

.br
.RS
.IP
.nf
dss_public() = [P, Q, G, Y]

.fi

.PP
Where P, Q and G are the dss parameters and Y is the public key.

.IP
.nf
dss_private() = [P, Q, G, X]

.fi

.PP
Where P, Q and G are the dss parameters and X is the private key.


.RE
.B
\fBdss_public() :: [key_integer()].\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBec_basis() ::\fR
\fB          {tpbasis, K :: non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB          {ppbasis,\fR
\fB           K1 :: non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB           K2 :: non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB           K3 :: non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB          onbasis.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Curve definition details.


.RE
.B
\fBec_characteristic_two_field() ::\fR
\fB          {characteristic_two_field,\fR
\fB           M :: integer(),\fR
\fB           Basis :: ec_basis()}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBec_curve() ::\fR
\fB          {A :: binary(), B :: binary(), Seed :: none | binary()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Parametric curve definition.


.RE
.B
\fBec_explicit_curve() ::\fR
\fB          {Field :: ec_field(),\fR
\fB           Curve :: ec_curve(),\fR
\fB           BasePoint :: binary(),\fR
\fB           Order :: binary(),\fR
\fB           CoFactor :: none | binary()}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBec_field() :: ec_prime_field() | ec_characteristic_two_field().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBec_named_curve() ::\fR
\fB          brainpoolP160r1 | brainpoolP160t1 | brainpoolP192r1 |\fR
\fB          brainpoolP192t1 | brainpoolP224r1 | brainpoolP224t1 |\fR
\fB          brainpoolP256r1 | brainpoolP256t1 | brainpoolP320r1 |\fR
\fB          brainpoolP320t1 | brainpoolP384r1 | brainpoolP384t1 |\fR
\fB          brainpoolP512r1 | brainpoolP512t1 | c2pnb163v1 | c2pnb163v2 |\fR
\fB          c2pnb163v3 | c2pnb176v1 | c2pnb208w1 | c2pnb272w1 |\fR
\fB          c2pnb304w1 | c2pnb368w1 | c2tnb191v1 | c2tnb191v2 |\fR
\fB          c2tnb191v3 | c2tnb239v1 | c2tnb239v2 | c2tnb239v3 |\fR
\fB          c2tnb359v1 | c2tnb431r1 | ipsec3 | ipsec4 | prime192v1 |\fR
\fB          prime192v2 | prime192v3 | prime239v1 | prime239v2 |\fR
\fB          prime239v3 | prime256v1 | secp112r1 | secp112r2 | secp128r1 |\fR
\fB          secp128r2 | secp160k1 | secp160r1 | secp160r2 | secp192k1 |\fR
\fB          secp192r1 | secp224k1 | secp224r1 | secp256k1 | secp256r1 |\fR
\fB          secp384r1 | secp521r1 | sect113r1 | sect113r2 | sect131r1 |\fR
\fB          sect131r2 | sect163k1 | sect163r1 | sect163r2 | sect193r1 |\fR
\fB          sect193r2 | sect233k1 | sect233r1 | sect239k1 | sect283k1 |\fR
\fB          sect283r1 | sect409k1 | sect409r1 | sect571k1 | sect571r1 |\fR
\fB          wtls1 | wtls10 | wtls11 | wtls12 | wtls3 | wtls4 | wtls5 |\fR
\fB          wtls6 | wtls7 | wtls8 | wtls9.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBec_prime_field() :: {prime_field, Prime :: integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBecdh_params() ::\fR
\fB          ec_named_curve() | edwards_curve_dh() | ec_explicit_curve().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBecdh_private() :: key_integer().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBecdh_public() :: key_integer().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBecdsa_digest_type() :: sha1() | sha2().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBecdsa_params() :: ec_named_curve() | ec_explicit_curve().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBecdsa_private() :: key_integer().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBecdsa_public() :: key_integer().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBeddsa_params() :: edwards_curve_ed().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBeddsa_private() :: key_integer().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBeddsa_public() :: key_integer().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBedwards_curve_dh() :: x25519 | x448.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBedwards_curve_ed() :: ed25519 | ed448.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Note that some curves are disabled if FIPS is enabled.


.RE
.B
\fBengine_cmnd() :: {unicode:chardata(), unicode:chardata()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Pre and Post commands for engine_load/3 and /4.


.RE
.B
\fBengine_key_ref() ::\fR
\fB          #{engine := engine_ref(),\fR
\fB            key_id := key_id(),\fR
\fB            password => password(),\fR
\fB            term() => term()}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBengine_method_type() ::\fR
\fB          engine_method_rsa | engine_method_dsa | engine_method_dh |\fR
\fB          engine_method_rand | engine_method_ecdh |\fR
\fB          engine_method_ecdsa | engine_method_ciphers |\fR
\fB          engine_method_digests | engine_method_store |\fR
\fB          engine_method_pkey_meths | engine_method_pkey_asn1_meths |\fR
\fB          engine_method_ec.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBengine_ref() :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The result of a call to \fIengine_load/3\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBhash_algorithm() ::\fR
\fB          sha1() |\fR
\fB          sha2() |\fR
\fB          sha3() |\fR
\fB          sha3_xof() |\fR
\fB          blake2() |\fR
\fB          ripemd160 | sm3 |\fR
\fB          compatibility_only_hash().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fB-opaque hash_state() \fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBhash_xof_algorithm() :: sha3_xof().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBhmac_hash_algorithm() ::\fR
\fB          sha1() | sha2() | sha3() | sm3 | compatibility_only_hash().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBkem() :: mlkem512 | mlkem768 | mlkem1024.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Key encapsulation mechanisms.


.RE
.B
\fBkey_id() :: string() | binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Identifies the key to be used. The format depends on the loaded engine. It is passed to the \fIENGINE_load_(private|public)_key\fR functions in libcrypto.


.RE
.B
\fBkey_integer() :: integer() | binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Always \fIbinary/0\fR when used as return value


.RE
.B
\fB-opaque mac_state() \fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Contexts with an internal state that should not be manipulated but passed between function calls.


.RE
.B
\fBmldsa() :: mldsa44 | mldsa65 | mldsa87.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBmldsa_private() :: {seed | expandedkey, binary()}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBmldsa_public() :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBotp_padding() :: zero | random.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Erlang/OTP adds a either padding of zeroes or padding with random bytes.


.RE
.B
\fBpadding() :: cryptolib_padding() | otp_padding().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This option handles padding in the last block. If not set, no padding is done and any bytes in the last unfilled block is silently discarded.


.RE
.B
\fBpassword() :: string() | binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The password of the key stored in an engine.


.RE
.B
\fBpk_encrypt_decrypt_algs() :: rsa.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Algorithms for public key encrypt/decrypt. Only RSA is supported.


.RE
.B
\fBpk_encrypt_decrypt_opts() :: [rsa_opt()] | rsa_compat_opts().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBpk_sign_verify_algs() ::\fR
\fB          rsa | dss | ecdsa | eddsa | mldsa() | slh_dsa().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Algorithms for sign and verify.


.RE
.B
\fBpk_sign_verify_opts() :: [rsa_sign_verify_opt()].\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBrand_cache_state() :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBrand_plugin_aes_state() :: dynamic().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBrand_plugin_prng1_init_state() ::\fR
\fB          {cipher_iv(), binary(), binary(), binary()}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBrand_plugin_prng1_state() ::\fR
\fB          rand_plugin_prng1_init_state() |\fR
\fB          maybe_improper_list(binary(), {crypto_state(), binary()}).\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBrand_plugin_state() :: no_state.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBrsa_compat_opts() :: [{rsa_pad, rsa_padding()}] | rsa_padding().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Those option forms are kept only for compatibility and should not be used in new code.


.RE
.B
\fBrsa_digest_type() :: sha1() | sha2() | md5 | ripemd160.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBrsa_opt() ::\fR
\fB          {rsa_padding, rsa_padding()} |\fR
\fB          {signature_md, atom()} |\fR
\fB          {rsa_mgf1_md, sha} |\fR
\fB          {rsa_oaep_label, binary()} |\fR
\fB          {rsa_oaep_md, sha}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBrsa_padding() ::\fR
\fB          rsa_pkcs1_padding | rsa_pkcs1_oaep_padding |\fR
\fB          rsa_x931_padding | rsa_no_padding.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Options for public key encrypt/decrypt. Only RSA is supported.

.PP
\fBWARNING: \fRThe RSA options are experimental. The exact set of options and there syntax \fImay\fR be changed without prior notice.



.RE
.B
\fBrsa_params() ::\fR
\fB          {ModulusSizeInBits :: integer(),\fR
\fB           PublicExponent :: key_integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.IP
.nf
rsa_public() = [E, N]

.fi

.IP
.nf
rsa_private() = [E, N, D] | [E, N, D, P1, P2, E1, E2, C]

.fi

.PP
Where E is the public exponent, N is public modulus and D is the private exponent. The longer key format contains redundant information that will make the calculation faster. P1 and P2 are first and second prime factors. E1 and E2 are first and second exponents. C is the CRT coefficient. The terminology is taken from RFC 3447.


.RE
.B
\fBrsa_private() :: [key_integer()].\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBrsa_public() :: [key_integer()].\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBrsa_sign_verify_opt() ::\fR
\fB          {rsa_padding, rsa_sign_verify_padding()} |\fR
\fB          {rsa_pss_saltlen, integer()} |\fR
\fB          {rsa_mgf1_md, sha2()}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBrsa_sign_verify_padding() ::\fR
\fB          rsa_pkcs1_padding | rsa_pkcs1_pss_padding | rsa_x931_padding |\fR
\fB          rsa_no_padding.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Options for sign and verify.

.PP
\fBWARNING: \fRThe RSA options are experimental. The exact set of options and there syntax \fImay\fR be changed without prior notice.



.RE
.B
\fBsha1() :: sha.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsha2() ::\fR
\fB          sha224 | sha256 | sha384 | sha512 | sha512_224 | sha512_256.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsha3() :: sha3_224 | sha3_256 | sha3_384 | sha3_512.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsha3_xof() :: shake128 | shake256.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBslh_dsa() ::\fR
\fB          slh_dsa_shake_128s | slh_dsa_shake_128f | slh_dsa_sha2_128s |\fR
\fB          slh_dsa_sha2_128f | slh_dsa_shake_192s | slh_dsa_shake_192f |\fR
\fB          slh_dsa_sha2_192s | slh_dsa_sha2_192f | slh_dsa_shake_256s |\fR
\fB          slh_dsa_shake_256f | slh_dsa_sha2_256s | slh_dsa_sha2_256f.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBslh_dsa_private() :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBslh_dsa_public() :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsrp_comp_params() ::\fR
\fB          {user, srp_user_comp_params()} |\fR
\fB          {host, srp_host_comp_params()}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsrp_gen_params() ::\fR
\fB          {user, srp_user_gen_params()} | {host, srp_host_gen_params()}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsrp_host_comp_params() :: [binary() | atom()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Where Verifier is \fIv\fR, Generator is \fIg\fR and Prime is\fI N\fR, DerivedKey is \fIX\fR, and Scrambler is \fIu\fR (optional will be generated if not provided) from SRP design Version = '3' | '6' | '6a'


.RE
.B
\fBsrp_host_gen_params() :: [binary() | atom() | list()].\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsrp_private() :: key_integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.IP
.nf
srp_public() = key_integer()

.fi

.PP
Where is \fIA\fR or \fIB\fR from SRP design

.IP
.nf
srp_private() = key_integer()

.fi

.PP
Where is \fIa\fR or \fIb\fR from SRP design


.RE
.B
\fBsrp_public() :: key_integer().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsrp_user_comp_params() :: [binary() | atom()].\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsrp_user_gen_params() :: [binary() | atom() | list()].\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBbytes_to_integer(binary()) -> integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Convert binary representation, of an integer, to an Erlang integer.


.RE
.B
\fBcipher_info(Type) -> Result\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         Type :: cipher(),\fR
\fB                         Result ::\fR
\fB                             #{key_length := integer(),\fR
\fB                               iv_length := integer(),\fR
\fB                               block_size := integer(),\fR
\fB                               mode := CipherModes,\fR
\fB                               type := undefined | integer(),\fR
\fB                               prop_aead := boolean()},\fR
\fB                         CipherModes ::\fR
\fB                             undefined | cbc_mode | ccm_mode |\fR
\fB                             cfb_mode | ctr_mode | ecb_mode | gcm_mode |\fR
\fB                             ige_mode | ocb_mode | ofb_mode |\fR
\fB                             wrap_mode | xts_mode.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get information about a cipher algorithm.

.PP
Returns a map with information about block size, key length, IV length, aead support and possibly other properties of the cipher algorithm in question.

.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRThe ciphers \fIaes_cbc\fR, \fIaes_cfb8\fR, \fIaes_cfb128\fR, \fIaes_ctr\fR, \fIaes_ecb\fR, \fIaes_gcm\fR and \fIaes_ccm\fR has no keylength in the \fIType\fR as opposed to for example \fIaes_128_ctr\fR. They adapt to the length of the key provided in the encrypt and decrypt function. Therefore it is impossible to return a valid keylength in the map. Always use a \fIType\fR with an explicit key length,


.PP
For a list of supported cipher algorithms, see supports(ciphers).


.RE
.B
\fBcompute_key(Type, OthersPublicKey, MyPrivateKey, Params) ->\fR
\fB                     SharedSecret\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         Type :: dh | ecdh | eddh | srp,\fR
\fB                         SharedSecret :: binary(),\fR
\fB                         OthersPublicKey ::\fR
\fB                             dh_public() | ecdh_public() | srp_public(),\fR
\fB                         MyPrivateKey ::\fR
\fB                             dh_private() |\fR
\fB                             ecdh_private() |\fR
\fB                             {srp_public(), srp_private()},\fR
\fB                         Params ::\fR
\fB                             dh_params() |\fR
\fB                             ecdh_params() |\fR
\fB                             srp_comp_params().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Compute the shared secret from the private key and the other party's public key.

.PP
See also \fIpublic_key:compute_key/2\fR.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBcrypto_final(State) -> FinalResult\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          State :: crypto_state(),\fR
\fB                          FinalResult :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Finalize a streaming encryptions or decryptions operation and delivers the final bytes of the final block.

.PP
The data returned from this function may be empty if no padding was enabled in \fIcrypto_init/3\fR or \fIcrypto_init/4\fR.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBcrypto_get_data(State) -> Result\fR
\fB                         when State :: crypto_state(), Result :: map().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Return information about a \fIcrypto_state/0\fR.

.PP
The information returned is a map, which currently contains at least:

size
.RS 2
The number of bytes encrypted or decrypted so far.


.RE

padding_size
.RS 2
After a call to 
\fIcrypto_final/1\fR it contains the number of bytes padded. Otherwise 0.

.RE

padding_type
.RS 2
The type of the padding as provided in the call to 
\fIcrypto_init/3\fR or \fIcrypto_init/4\fR.

.RE

encrypt
.RS 2
Is 
\fItrue\fR if encryption is performed. It is \fIfalse\fR otherwise.

.RE

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBcrypto_init(Cipher, Key, FlagOrOptions) -> State\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         Cipher :: cipher_no_iv(),\fR
\fB                         Key :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                         FlagOrOptions :: crypto_opts() | boolean(),\fR
\fB                         State :: crypto_state().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Initialize the state for a streaming encryption or decryption operation.

.PP
Equivalent to the call \fIcrypto_init(Cipher, Key, <<>>, FlagOrOptions)\fR. It is intended for ciphers without an IV (nounce).

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBcrypto_init(Cipher, Key, IV, FlagOrOptions) -> State\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         Cipher :: cipher_iv(),\fR
\fB                         Key :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                         IV :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                         FlagOrOptions :: crypto_opts(),\fR
\fB                         State :: crypto_state().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Initialize the state for a streaming encryptions or decryptions operation.

.PP
The returned state should be used as argument to \fIcrypto_update/2\fR and \fIcrypto_final/1\fR to do the actual encryption or decryption.

.PP
If \fIIV = <<>>\fR, no IV is used. This is intended for ciphers without an IV (nounce). See \fIcrypto_init/3\fR.

.PP
For encryption, set the \fIFlagOrOptions\fR to \fItrue\fR or \fI[{encrypt,true}]\fR. For decryption, set it to \fIfalse\fR or \fI[{encrypt,false}]\fR.

.PP
Padding could be enabled with the option {padding,Padding}. The cryptolib_padding enables \fIpkcs_padding\fR or no padding (\fInone\fR). The paddings \fIzero\fR or \fIrandom\fR fills the last part of the last block with zeroes or random bytes. If the last block is already full, nothing is added.

.PP
In decryption, the cryptolib_padding removes such padding, if present. The otp_padding is not removed - it has to be done elsewhere.

.PP
If padding is \fI{padding,none}\fR or not specified and the total data from all subsequent crypto_updates does not fill the last block fully, that last data is lost. In case of \fI{padding,none}\fR there will be an error in this case. If padding is not specified, the bytes of the unfilled block is silently discarded.

.PP
The actual padding is performed by \fIcrypto_final/1\fR.

.PP
For blocksizes call \fIcipher_info/1\fR.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.

.PP
See examples in the User's Guide.


.RE
.B
\fBcrypto_one_time(Cipher, Key, Data, FlagOrOptions) -> Result\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             Cipher :: cipher_no_iv(),\fR
\fB                             Key :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                             Data :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                             FlagOrOptions :: crypto_opts() | boolean(),\fR
\fB                             Result :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Do a complete encrypt or decrypt of the full text.

.PP
As \fIcrypto_one_time/5\fR but for ciphers without IVs.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBcrypto_one_time(Cipher, Key, IV, Data, FlagOrOptions) -> Result\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             Cipher :: cipher_iv(),\fR
\fB                             Key :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                             IV :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                             Data :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                             FlagOrOptions :: crypto_opts() | boolean(),\fR
\fB                             Result :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Do a complete encrypt or decrypt of the full text.

.PP
Argument \fIData\fR is the text to be encrypted or decrypted.

.PP
For encryption, set the \fIFlagOrOptions\fR to \fItrue\fR. For decryption, set it to \fIfalse\fR. For setting other options, see \fIcrypto_init/4\fR.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.

.PP
See examples in the User's Guide.


.RE
.B
\fBcrypto_one_time_aead(State, IV, InText, AAD) -> Result\fR
\fB                              when\fR
\fB                                  State :: crypto_state(),\fR
\fB                                  IV :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                                  InText :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                                  AAD :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                                  Result ::\fR
\fB                                      EncryptResult | DecryptResult,\fR
\fB                                  EncryptResult :: binary(),\fR
\fB                                  DecryptResult :: binary() | error.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Do a complete encrypt or decrypt with an AEAD cipher of the full text.

.PP
Similar to 'crypto_one_time_aead/7' but uses the handle from 'crypto_one_time_aead_init/4'.

.PP
Appends the tag of the specified 'TagLength' to the end of the encrypted data, when doing encryption. Strips the tag from the end of 'InText' and verifies it when doing decryption.


.RE
.B
\fBcrypto_one_time_aead(Cipher, Key, IV, InText, AAD,\fR
\fB                           EncFlag :: true) ->\fR
\fB                              Result\fR
\fB                              when\fR
\fB                                  Cipher :: cipher_aead(),\fR
\fB                                  Key :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                                  IV :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                                  InText :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                                  AAD :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                                  Result :: EncryptResult,\fR
\fB                                  EncryptResult ::\fR
\fB                                      {OutCryptoText, OutTag},\fR
\fB                                  OutCryptoText :: binary(),\fR
\fB                                  OutTag :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Do a complete encrypt with an AEAD cipher of the full text with the default tag length.

.PP
Equivalent to \fIcrypto_one_time_aead(Cipher, Key, IV, InText, AAD, TagLength, true)\fR where \fITagLength\fR is the default tag length for the given \fICipher\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBcrypto_one_time_aead(Cipher, Key, IV, InText, AAD, TagOrTagLength,\fR
\fB                           EncFlag) ->\fR
\fB                              Result\fR
\fB                              when\fR
\fB                                  Cipher :: cipher_aead(),\fR
\fB                                  Key :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                                  IV :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                                  InText :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                                  AAD :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                                  TagOrTagLength ::\fR
\fB                                      EncryptTagLength | DecryptTag,\fR
\fB                                  EncryptTagLength :: non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB                                  DecryptTag :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                                  EncFlag :: boolean(),\fR
\fB                                  Result ::\fR
\fB                                      EncryptResult | DecryptResult,\fR
\fB                                  EncryptResult ::\fR
\fB                                      {OutCryptoText, OutTag},\fR
\fB                                  DecryptResult :: OutPlainText | error,\fR
\fB                                  OutCryptoText :: binary(),\fR
\fB                                  OutTag :: binary(),\fR
\fB                                  OutPlainText :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Do a complete encrypt or decrypt with an AEAD cipher of the full text.

.PP
For encryption, set the \fIEncryptFlag\fR to \fItrue\fR and set the \fITagOrTagLength\fR to the wanted size (in bytes) of the tag, that is, the tag length. If the default length is wanted, the \fIcrypto_one_time_aead/6\fR form may be used.

.PP
For decryption, set the \fIEncryptFlag\fR to \fIfalse\fR and put the tag to be checked in the argument \fITagOrTagLength\fR.

.PP
\fBWARNING: \fRThe length of the tag at decryption is not checked by the function. It is the caller's responsibility to ensure that the length of the tag matches the length of the tag used when the data was encrypted. Otherwise the decryption may succeed if the given tag only matches the start of the proper tag.


.PP
Additional Authentication Data (AAD) is plaintext data that will not be encrypted, but will be covered by authenticity protection. It should be provided through the \fIAAD\fR argument, but can be an empty binary as well (\fI<<>>\fR) if not needed. In that case, a plain AE (Authenticated Encryption) is performed instead of AEAD (Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data). This function only supports ciphers that can be used both with and without AAD.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.

.PP
See examples in the User's Guide.


.RE
.B
\fBcrypto_one_time_aead_init(Cipher, Key, TagLength, EncFlag) ->\fR
\fB                                   Result\fR
\fB                                   when\fR
\fB                                       Cipher :: cipher_aead(),\fR
\fB                                       Key :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                                       TagLength :: non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB                                       EncFlag :: boolean(),\fR
\fB                                       Result :: crypto_state().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Initializes AEAD cipher.

.PP
Similar to 'crypto_one_time_aead/7' but only does the initialization part, returns a handle that can be used with 'crypto_one_time_aead/4' serveral times.


.RE
.B
\fBcrypto_update(State, Data) -> Result\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           State :: crypto_state(),\fR
\fB                           Data :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                           Result :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Add data to a streaming encryption or decryption operation.

.PP
If the part is less than a number of full blocks, only the full blocks (possibly none) are encrypted or decrypted and the remaining bytes are saved to the next \fIcrypto_update\fR operation. The \fIState\fR should be created with \fIcrypto_init/3\fR or \fIcrypto_init/4\fR.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.

.PP
See examples in the User's Guide.


.RE
.B
\fBdecapsulate_key(Type, MyPrivKey, EncapSecret) -> Secret\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             Type :: kem(),\fR
\fB                             MyPrivKey :: binary(),\fR
\fB                             EncapSecret :: binary(),\fR
\fB                             Secret :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Regenerate shared secret from encapsulated secret and private key.

.PP
Returns a shared secret for encryption/decryption by local party.

.PP
Supported encapsulation methods can be obtained with \fIsupports(kems)\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBec_curve(CurveName) -> ExplicitCurve\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      CurveName :: ec_named_curve(),\fR
\fB                      ExplicitCurve :: ec_explicit_curve().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Return the defining parameters of a elliptic curve.


.RE
.B
\fBec_curves() -> [EllipticCurve]\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       EllipticCurve ::\fR
\fB                           ec_named_curve() |\fR
\fB                           edwards_curve_dh() |\fR
\fB                           edwards_curve_ed().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Return all supported named elliptic curves.


.RE
.B
\fBenable_fips_mode(Enable) -> Result\fR
\fB                          when Enable :: boolean(), Result :: boolean().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: crypto:enable_fips_mode/1 is deprecated; use config parameter fips_mode
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Enable or disable FIPs mode.

.PP
Argument \fIEnable\fR should be \fItrue\fR to enable and \fIfalse\fR to disable FIPS mode. Returns \fItrue\fR if the operation was successful or \fIfalse\fR otherwise.

.PP
Note that to enable FIPS mode successfully, OTP must be built with the configure option \fI--enable-fips\fR, and the underlying libcrypto must also support FIPS.

.PP
See also \fIinfo_fips/0\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBencapsulate_key(Type, OthersPublicKey) -> {Secret, EncapSecret}\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             Type :: kem(),\fR
\fB                             OthersPublicKey :: binary(),\fR
\fB                             Secret :: binary(),\fR
\fB                             EncapSecret :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Generate encapsulated shared secret from the other party's public key.

.PP
Returns both a shared secret for encryption/decryption by local party and an encapsulated format of the same secret to be safely sent to the other party. With its private key, the other party can decapsulate the received secret (with \fIdecapsulate_key/3\fR for example) to regenerate the same shared secret.

.PP
Supported encapsulation methods can be obtained with \fIsupports(kems)\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBengine_add(Engine) -> Result\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        Engine :: engine_ref(),\fR
\fB                        Result :: ok | {error, Reason :: term()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Add the engine to OpenSSL's internal list.

.PP
The function raises a \fIerror:badarg\fR if the parameters are in wrong format. It may also raise the exception \fIerror:notsup\fR in case there is no engine support in the underlying OpenSSL implementation.


.RE
.B
\fBengine_by_id(EngineId) -> Result\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          EngineId :: unicode:chardata(),\fR
\fB                          Result ::\fR
\fB                              {ok, Engine :: engine_ref()} |\fR
\fB                              {error, Reason :: term()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get a reference to an already loaded engine with \fIEngineId\fR. An error tuple is returned if the engine cannot be unloaded.

.PP
The function raises a \fIerror:badarg\fR if the parameter is in wrong format. It may also raise the exception \fIerror:notsup\fR in case there is no engine support in the underlying OpenSSL implementation.

.PP
See also the chapter Engine Load in the User's Guide.


.RE
.B
\fBengine_ctrl_cmd_string(Engine, CmdName, CmdArg) -> Result\fR
\fB                                when\fR
\fB                                    Engine :: term(),\fR
\fB                                    CmdName :: unicode:chardata(),\fR
\fB                                    CmdArg :: unicode:chardata(),\fR
\fB                                    Result ::\fR
\fB                                        ok | {error, Reason :: term()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Send ctrl commands to an OpenSSL engine.

.PP
This function is the same as calling \fIengine_ctrl_cmd_string/4\fR with \fIOptional\fR set to \fIfalse\fR.

.PP
The function raises a \fIerror:badarg\fR if the parameters are in wrong format. It may also raise the exception \fIerror:notsup\fR in case there is no engine support in the underlying OpenSSL implementation.


.RE
.B
\fBengine_ctrl_cmd_string(Engine, CmdName, CmdArg, Optional) ->\fR
\fB                                Result\fR
\fB                                when\fR
\fB                                    Engine :: term(),\fR
\fB                                    CmdName :: unicode:chardata(),\fR
\fB                                    CmdArg :: unicode:chardata(),\fR
\fB                                    Optional :: boolean(),\fR
\fB                                    Result ::\fR
\fB                                        ok | {error, Reason :: term()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Send ctrl commands to an OpenSSL engine.

.PP
\fIOptional\fR is a boolean argument that can relax the semantics of the function. If set to \fItrue\fR it will only return failure if the ENGINE supported the given command name but failed while executing it, if the ENGINE does not support the command name it will simply return success without doing anything. In this case we assume the user is only supplying commands specific to the given ENGINE so we set this to \fIfalse\fR.

.PP
The function raises a \fIerror:badarg\fR if the parameters are in wrong format. It may also raise the exception \fIerror:notsup\fR in case there is no engine support in the underlying OpenSSL implementation.


.RE
.B
\fBengine_get_all_methods() -> Result\fR
\fB                                when Result :: [engine_method_type()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Return a list of all possible engine methods.

.PP
May raise exception \fIerror:notsup\fR in case there is no engine support in the underlying OpenSSL implementation.

.PP
See also the chapter Engine Load in the User's Guide.


.RE
.B
\fBengine_get_id(Engine) -> EngineId\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           Engine :: engine_ref(),\fR
\fB                           EngineId :: unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Return the ID for the engine, or an empty binary if there is no id set.

.PP
The function raises a \fIerror:badarg\fR if the parameters are in wrong format. It may also raise the exception \fIerror:notsup\fR in case there is no engine support in the underlying OpenSSL implementation.


.RE
.B
\fBengine_get_name(Engine) -> EngineName\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             Engine :: engine_ref(),\fR
\fB                             EngineName :: unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Return the name (eg a description) for the engine, or an empty binary if there is no name set.

.PP
The function raises a \fIerror:badarg\fR if the parameters are in wrong format. It may also raise the exception \fIerror:notsup\fR in case there is no engine support in the underlying OpenSSL implementation.


.RE
.B
\fBengine_list() -> Result\fR
\fB                     when Result :: [EngineId :: unicode:chardata()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
List the id's of all engines in OpenSSL's internal list.

.PP
It may also raise the exception \fIerror:notsup\fR in case there is no engine support in the underlying OpenSSL implementation.

.PP
See also the chapter Engine Load in the User's Guide.

.PP
May raise exception \fIerror:notsup\fR in case engine functionality is not supported by the underlying OpenSSL implementation.


.RE
.B
\fBengine_load(EngineId, PreCmds, PostCmds) -> Result\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         EngineId :: unicode:chardata(),\fR
\fB                         PreCmds :: [engine_cmnd()],\fR
\fB                         PostCmds :: [engine_cmnd()],\fR
\fB                         Result ::\fR
\fB                             {ok, Engine :: engine_ref()} |\fR
\fB                             {error, Reason :: term()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Load an OpenSSL engine.

.PP
Loads the OpenSSL engine given by \fIEngineId\fR if it is available and intialize it. Returns \fIok\fR and an engine handle, or if the engine cannot be loaded an error tuple is returned.

.PP
The function raises a \fIerror:badarg\fR if the parameters are in wrong format. It may also raise the exception \fIerror:notsup\fR in case there is no engine support in the underlying OpenSSL implementation.

.PP
See also the chapter Engine Load in the User's Guide.


.RE
.B
\fBengine_register(Engine, EngineMethods) -> Result\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             Engine :: engine_ref(),\fR
\fB                             EngineMethods :: [engine_method_type()],\fR
\fB                             Result :: ok | {error, Reason :: term()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Register engine to handle some type of methods, for example engine_method_digests.

.PP
The function raises a \fIerror:badarg\fR if the parameters are in wrong format. It may also raise the exception \fIerror:notsup\fR in case there is no engine support in the underlying OpenSSL implementation.


.RE
.B
\fBengine_remove(Engine) -> Result\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           Engine :: engine_ref(),\fR
\fB                           Result :: ok | {error, Reason :: term()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Remove the engine from OpenSSL's internal list.

.PP
The function raises a \fIerror:badarg\fR if the parameters are in wrong format. It may also raise the exception \fIerror:notsup\fR in case there is no engine support in the underlying OpenSSL implementation.


.RE
.B
\fBengine_unload(Engine) -> Result\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           Engine :: engine_ref(),\fR
\fB                           Result :: ok | {error, Reason :: term()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Unload an OpenSSL engine.

.PP
Unloads the OpenSSL engine given by \fIEngine\fR. An error tuple is returned if the engine cannot be unloaded.

.PP
The function raises a \fIerror:badarg\fR if the parameter is in wrong format. It may also raise the exception \fIerror:notsup\fR in case there is no engine support in the underlying OpenSSL implementation.

.PP
See also the chapter Engine Load in the User's Guide.


.RE
.B
\fBengine_unregister(Engine, EngineMethods) -> Result\fR
\fB                           when\fR
\fB                               Engine :: engine_ref(),\fR
\fB                               EngineMethods :: [engine_method_type()],\fR
\fB                               Result :: ok | {error, Reason :: term()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Unregister engine so it does not handle some type of methods.

.PP
The function raises a \fIerror:badarg\fR if the parameters are in wrong format. It may also raise the exception \fIerror:notsup\fR in case there is no engine support in the underlying OpenSSL implementation.


.RE
.B
\fBensure_engine_loaded(EngineId, LibPath) -> Result\fR
\fB                              when\fR
\fB                                  EngineId :: unicode:chardata(),\fR
\fB                                  LibPath :: unicode:chardata(),\fR
\fB                                  Result ::\fR
\fB                                      {ok, Engine :: engine_ref()} |\fR
\fB                                      {error, Reason :: term()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Load a dynamic engine if not already done.

.PP
Loada the engine given by \fIEngineId\fR and the path to the dynamic library implementing the engine. An error tuple is returned if the engine cannot be loaded.

.PP
This function differs from the normal engine_load in the sense that it also add the engine id to OpenSSL's internal engine list. The difference between the first call and the following is that the first loads the engine with the dynamical engine and the following calls fetch it from the OpenSSL's engine list. All references that is returned are equal.

.PP
Use \fIengine_unload/1\fR function to remove the references. But remember that \fIengine_unload/1\fR just removes the references to the engine and not the tag in OpenSSL's engine list. That has to be done with the \fIengine_remove/1\fR function when needed (just called once, from any of the references you got).

.PP
The function raises a \fIerror:badarg\fR if the parameters are in wrong format. It may also raise the exception \fIerror:notsup\fR in case there is no engine support in the underlying OpenSSL implementation.

.PP
See also the chapter Engine Load in the User's Guide.


.RE
.B
\fBexor(iodata(), iodata()) -> binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Perform bit-wise XOR (exclusive or) on the data supplied.

.PP
The two byte sequences must be of equal length.


.RE
.B
\fBgenerate_key(Type, Params, PrivKeyIn) -> {PublicKey, PrivKeyOut}\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          Type ::\fR
\fB                              dh | ecdh | eddh | eddsa | rsa |\fR
\fB                              mldsa() |\fR
\fB                              mlkem512 | mlkem768 | mlkem1024 | srp |\fR
\fB                              slh_dsa(),\fR
\fB                          PublicKey ::\fR
\fB                              dh_public() |\fR
\fB                              ecdh_public() |\fR
\fB                              rsa_public() |\fR
\fB                              srp_public(),\fR
\fB                          PrivKeyIn ::\fR
\fB                              undefined |\fR
\fB                              dh_private() |\fR
\fB                              ecdh_private() |\fR
\fB                              rsa_private() |\fR
\fB                              {srp_public(), srp_private()},\fR
\fB                          PrivKeyOut ::\fR
\fB                              dh_private() |\fR
\fB                              ecdh_private() |\fR
\fB                              rsa_private() |\fR
\fB                              {srp_public(), srp_private()},\fR
\fB                          Params ::\fR
\fB                              dh_params() |\fR
\fB                              ecdh_params() |\fR
\fB                              eddsa_params() |\fR
\fB                              rsa_params() |\fR
\fB                              srp_comp_params() |\fR
\fB                              [].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Generate a public key.

.PP
See also \fIpublic_key:generate_key/1\fR.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.

.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRIf the linked version of cryptolib is OpenSSL 3.0


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
and the \fIType\fR is \fIdh\fR (diffie-hellman)

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
and the parameter \fIP\fR (in \fIdh_params/0\fR) is one of the MODP groups (see RFC 3526)

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
and the optional \fIMaxPrivateKeyBitLength\fR parameter (in \fIdh_params/0\fR) is present, then the optional key length parameter must be at least 224, 256, 302, 352 and 400 for group sizes of 2048, 3072, 4096, 6144 and 8192, respectively.

.RE



.RE
.B
\fBhash(Type, Data) -> Digest\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  Type :: hash_algorithm(),\fR
\fB                  Data :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                  Digest :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Compute a message digest.

.PP
Argument \fIType\fR is the digest type and argument \fIData\fR is the full message.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBhash_equals(BinA, BinB) -> Result\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         BinA :: binary(),\fR
\fB                         BinB :: binary(),\fR
\fB                         Result :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Compare two binaries in constant time, such as results of HMAC computations.

.PP
Returns true if the binaries are identical, false if they are of the same length but not identical. The function raises an \fIerror:badarg\fR exception if the binaries are of different size.


.RE
.B
\fBhash_final(State) -> Digest\fR
\fB                    when State :: hash_state(), Digest :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Finalize a streaming hash calculation.

.PP
Argument \fIState\fR as returned from the last call to hash_update. The size of \fIDigest\fR is determined by the type of hash function used to generate it.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBhash_info(Type) -> Result\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       Type :: hash_algorithm(),\fR
\fB                       Result ::\fR
\fB                           #{size := integer(),\fR
\fB                             block_size := integer(),\fR
\fB                             type := integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get information about a hash algorithm.

.PP
Returns a map with information about block_size, size and possibly other properties of the hash algorithm in question.

.PP
For a list of supported hash algorithms, see supports(hashs).


.RE
.B
\fBhash_init(Type) -> State\fR
\fB                   when Type :: hash_algorithm(), State :: hash_state().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Initialize the state for a streaming hash digest calculation.

.PP
Argument \fIType\fR determines which digest to use. The returned state should be used as argument to \fIhash_update/2\fR.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBhash_update(State, Data) -> NewState\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         State :: hash_state(),\fR
\fB                         NewState :: hash_state(),\fR
\fB                         Data :: iodata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Add data to a streaming digest calculation.

.PP
Update the digest using the given \fIData\fR of any length.

.PP
Argument \fIState\fR must have been generated by hash_init or a previous call to this function.

.PP
Returns \fINewState\fR that must be passed into the next call to \fIhash_update/2\fR or \fIhash_final/1\fR.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBhash_xof(Type, Data, Length) -> Digest\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      Type :: hash_xof_algorithm(),\fR
\fB                      Data :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                      Length :: non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB                      Digest :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Compute a message digest for an \fIxof_algorithm\fR.

.PP
Argument \fIType\fR is the type of digest, \fIData\fR is the full text and \fILength\fR is the digest length in bits.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.

.PP
May raise exception \fIerror:notsup\fR in case the chosen \fIType\fR is not supported by the underlying libcrypto implementation.


.RE
.B
\fBinfo() ->\fR
\fB              #{compile_type := normal | debug | valgrind | asan,\fR
\fB                cryptolib_version_compiled := string() | undefined,\fR
\fB                cryptolib_version_linked := string(),\fR
\fB                link_type := dynamic | static,\fR
\fB                otp_crypto_version := string(),\fR
\fB                fips_provider_available => boolean(),\fR
\fB                fips_provider_buildinfo => string()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get information about crypto and the OpenSSL backend.

.PP
Returns a map with information about the compilation and linking of crypto.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf

 1> crypto:info().
 #{compile_type => normal,
   cryptolib_version_compiled => "OpenSSL 3.0.0 7 sep 2021",
   cryptolib_version_linked => "OpenSSL 3.0.0 7 sep 2021",
   link_type => dynamic,
   otp_crypto_version => "5.0.2",
   fips_provider_available => true,
   fips_provider_buildinfo => "3.0.0"}
 2>

.fi

.PP
More association types than documented may be present in the map. Some of the associations (like fips) may be absent if not supported.


.RE
.B
\fBinfo_fips() -> not_supported | not_enabled | enabled.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get information about the operating status of FIPS.

.PP
Returns the FIPS operating status of crypto and the underlying libcrypto library. If crypto was built with FIPS support this can be either \fIenabled\fR (when running in FIPS mode) or \fInot_enabled\fR. For other builds this value is always \fInot_supported\fR.

.PP
See configuration parameter fips_mode about how to enable FIPS mode.

.PP
\fBWARNING: \fRIn FIPS mode all non-FIPS compliant algorithms are disabled and raise exception \fIerror:notsup\fR. Check supports(ciphers) that in FIPS mode returns the restricted list of available algorithms.



.RE
.B
\fBinfo_lib() -> [{Name, VerNum, VerStr}]\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      Name :: binary(),\fR
\fB                      VerNum :: integer(),\fR
\fB                      VerStr :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get the name and version of the libraries used by crypto.

.PP
\fIName\fR is the name of the library. \fIVerNum\fR is the numeric version according to the library's own versioning scheme. \fIVerStr\fR contains a text variant of the version.

.IP
.nf
> info_lib().
[{<<"OpenSSL">>,269484095,<<"OpenSSL 1.1.0c  10 Nov 2016"">>}]

.fi

.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRFrom OTP R16 the \fInumeric version\fR represents the version of the OpenSSL \fIheader files\fR (\fIopenssl/opensslv.h\fR) used when crypto was compiled. The text variant represents the libcrypto library used at runtime. In earlier OTP versions both numeric and text was taken from the library.



.RE
.B
\fBmac(Type :: poly1305, Key, Data) -> Mac\fR
\fB             when Key :: iodata(), Data :: iodata(), Mac :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Compute a \fIpoly1305\fR MAC (Message Authentication Code).

.PP
Same as \fImac(Type, undefined, Key, Data)\fR.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBmac(Type, SubType, Key, Data) -> Mac\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Type :: hmac | cmac | poly1305,\fR
\fB                 SubType ::\fR
\fB                     hmac_hash_algorithm() |\fR
\fB                     cmac_cipher_algorithm() |\fR
\fB                     undefined,\fR
\fB                 Key :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                 Data :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                 Mac :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Compute a MAC (Message Authentication Code).

.PP
Argument \fIType\fR is the type of MAC and \fIData\fR is the full message.

.PP
\fISubType\fR depends on the MAC \fIType\fR:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
For \fIhmac\fR it is a hash algorithm, see Algorithm Details in the User's Guide.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
For \fIcmac\fR it is a cipher suitable for cmac, see Algorithm Details in the User's Guide.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
For \fIpoly1305\fR it should be set to \fIundefined\fR or the mac/2 function could be used instead, see Algorithm Details in the User's Guide.

.RE

.PP
\fIKey\fR is the authentication key with a length according to the \fIType\fR and \fISubType\fR. The key length could be found with the \fIhash_info/1\fR (\fIhmac\fR) for and \fIcipher_info/1\fR (\fIcmac\fR) functions. For \fIpoly1305\fR the key length is 32 bytes. Note that the cryptographic quality of the key is not checked.

.PP
The \fIMac\fR result will have a default length depending on the \fIType\fR and \fISubType\fR. To set a shorter length, use \fImacN/4\fR or \fImacN/5\fR instead. The default length is documented in Algorithm Details in the User's Guide.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBmacN(Type :: poly1305, Key, Data, MacLength) -> Mac\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  Key :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                  Data :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                  Mac :: binary(),\fR
\fB                  MacLength :: pos_integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Compute a \fIpoly1305\fR MAC (Message Authentication Code) with a limited length.

.PP
Same as \fImacN(Type, undefined, Key, Data, MacLength)\fR.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBmacN(Type, SubType, Key, Data, MacLength) -> Mac\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  Type :: hmac | cmac | poly1305,\fR
\fB                  SubType ::\fR
\fB                      hmac_hash_algorithm() |\fR
\fB                      cmac_cipher_algorithm() |\fR
\fB                      undefined,\fR
\fB                  Key :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                  Data :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                  Mac :: binary(),\fR
\fB                  MacLength :: pos_integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Compute a MAC (Message Authentication Code) with a limited length.

.PP
Works like \fImac/3\fR and \fImac/4\fR but \fIMacLength\fR will limit the size of the resultant \fIMac\fR to at most \fIMacLength\fR bytes. Note that if \fIMacLength\fR is greater than the actual number of bytes returned from the underlying hash, the returned hash will have that shorter length instead.

.PP
The max \fIMacLength\fR is documented in Algorithm Details in the User's Guide.


.RE
.B
\fBmac_final(State) -> Mac when State :: mac_state(), Mac :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Finalize a streaming MAC operation.

.PP
Argument \fIState\fR is the state as returned by the last call to \fImac_update/2\fR.

.PP
The \fIMac\fR result will have a default length depending on the \fIType\fR and \fISubType\fR in the mac_init/2,3 call. To set a shorter length, use \fImac_finalN/2\fR instead. The default length is documented in Algorithm Details in the User's Guide.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBmac_finalN(State, MacLength) -> Mac\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        State :: mac_state(),\fR
\fB                        MacLength :: pos_integer(),\fR
\fB                        Mac :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Finalize a MAC operation with a custom length.

.PP
Argument \fIState\fR is the state as returned by the last call to \fImac_update/2\fR.

.PP
\fIMac\fR will be a binary with at most \fIMacLength\fR bytes. Note that if \fIMacLength\fR is greater than the actual number of bytes returned from the underlying hash, the returned hash will have that shorter length instead.

.PP
The max \fIMacLength\fR is documented in Algorithm Details in the User's Guide.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBmac_init(Type :: poly1305, Key) -> State\fR
\fB                  when Key :: iodata(), State :: mac_state().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Initialize a state for streaming \fIpoly1305\fR MAC calculation.

.PP
Same as \fImac_init(Type, undefined, Key)\fR.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBmac_init(Type, SubType, Key) -> State\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      Type :: hmac | cmac | poly1305,\fR
\fB                      SubType ::\fR
\fB                          hmac_hash_algorithm() |\fR
\fB                          cmac_cipher_algorithm() |\fR
\fB                          undefined,\fR
\fB                      Key :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                      State :: mac_state().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Initialize the state for streaming MAC calculation.

.PP
\fIType\fR determines which mac algorithm to use in the MAC operation.

.PP
\fISubType\fR depends on the MAC \fIType\fR:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
For \fIhmac\fR it is a hash algorithm, see Algorithm Details in the User's Guide.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
For \fIcmac\fR it is a cipher suitable for cmac, see Algorithm Details in the User's Guide.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
For \fIpoly1305\fR it should be set to \fIundefined\fR or the mac/2 function could be used instead, see Algorithm Details in the User's Guide.

.RE

.PP
\fIKey\fR is the authentication key with a length according to the \fIType\fR and \fISubType\fR. The key length could be found with the \fIhash_info/1\fR (\fIhmac\fR) for and \fIcipher_info/1\fR (\fIcmac\fR) functions. For \fIpoly1305\fR the key length is 32 bytes. Note that the cryptographic quality of the key is not checked.

.PP
The returned \fIState\fR should be used in one or more subsequent calls to \fImac_update/2\fR. The MAC value is finally returned by calling \fImac_final/1\fR or \fImac_finalN/2\fR.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.

.PP
See examples in the User's Guide.


.RE
.B
\fBmac_update(State0, Data) -> State\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        Data :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                        State0 :: mac_state(),\fR
\fB                        State :: mac_state().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Add data to a streaming MAC calculation.

.PP
Update the MAC represented by \fIState0\fR using the given \fIData\fR which could be of any length.

.PP
The \fIState0\fR is the State value originally from a MAC init function, that is \fImac_init/2\fR, \fImac_init/3\fR or the last call to \fImac_update/2\fR. The value \fIState0\fR is returned unchanged by the function as a reference to a mutated internal state. Hence, it is not possible to branch off a data stream by reusing old states.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBmod_pow(N, P, M) -> Result\fR
\fB                 when\fR
\fB                     N :: binary() | integer(),\fR
\fB                     P :: binary() | integer(),\fR
\fB                     M :: binary() | integer(),\fR
\fB                     Result :: binary() | error.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Compute the function \fIN^P mod M\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBpbkdf2_hmac(Digest, Pass, Salt, Iter, KeyLen) -> Result\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         Digest ::\fR
\fB                             sha | sha224 | sha256 | sha384 | sha512 |\fR
\fB                             sha512_224 | sha512_256,\fR
\fB                         Pass :: binary(),\fR
\fB                         Salt :: binary(),\fR
\fB                         Iter :: pos_integer(),\fR
\fB                         KeyLen :: pos_integer(),\fR
\fB                         Result :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
PKCS #5 PBKDF2 (Password-Based Key Derivation Function 2) in combination with HMAC.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.


.RE
.B
\fBprivate_decrypt(Algorithm, CipherText, PrivateKey, Options) ->\fR
\fB                         PlainText\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             Algorithm :: pk_encrypt_decrypt_algs(),\fR
\fB                             CipherText :: binary(),\fR
\fB                             PrivateKey ::\fR
\fB                                 rsa_private() | engine_key_ref(),\fR
\fB                             Options :: pk_encrypt_decrypt_opts(),\fR
\fB                             PlainText :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Decrypt using a private key.

.PP
Decrypts the \fICipherText\fR, encrypted with \fIpublic_encrypt/4\fR (or equivalent function) using the \fIPrivateKey\fR, and returns the plaintext (message digest). This is a low level signature verification operation used for instance by older versions of the SSL protocol. See also public_key:decrypt_private/2,3

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.

.PP
\fBWARNING: \fRThis is a legacy function, for security reasons do not use with rsa_pkcs1_padding.



.RE
.B
\fBprivate_encrypt(Algorithm, PlainText, PrivateKey, Options) ->\fR
\fB                         CipherText\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             Algorithm :: pk_encrypt_decrypt_algs(),\fR
\fB                             PlainText :: binary(),\fR
\fB                             PrivateKey ::\fR
\fB                                 rsa_private() | engine_key_ref(),\fR
\fB                             Options :: pk_encrypt_decrypt_opts(),\fR
\fB                             CipherText :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Encrypt using a private key.

.PP
Encrypts the \fIPlainText\fR using the \fIPrivateKey\fR and returns the ciphertext. This is a low level signature operation used for instance by older versions of the SSL protocol. See also public_key:encrypt_private/2,3

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.

.PP
Public-key decryption using the private key. See also \fIcrypto:private_decrypt/4\fR

.PP
\fBWARNING: \fRThis is a legacy function, for security reasons do not use with rsa_pkcs1_padding. For digital signatures use of \fIsign/4\fR together with \fIverify/5\fR is the prefered solution.



.RE
.B
\fBprivkey_to_pubkey(Type, EnginePrivateKeyRef) -> PublicKey\fR
\fB                           when\fR
\fB                               Type :: rsa | dss,\fR
\fB                               EnginePrivateKeyRef :: engine_key_ref(),\fR
\fB                               PublicKey :: rsa_public() | dss_public().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Fetch public key from a private key stored in an Engine.

.PP
The key must be of the type indicated by the Type parameter.


.RE
.B
\fBpublic_decrypt(Algorithm, CipherText, PublicKey, Options) ->\fR
\fB                        PlainText\fR
\fB                        when\fR
\fB                            Algorithm :: pk_encrypt_decrypt_algs(),\fR
\fB                            CipherText :: binary(),\fR
\fB                            PublicKey :: rsa_public() | engine_key_ref(),\fR
\fB                            Options :: pk_encrypt_decrypt_opts(),\fR
\fB                            PlainText :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Decrypt using a public key.

.PP
Decrypts the \fICipherText\fR, encrypted with \fIprivate_encrypt/4\fR(or equivalent function) using the \fIPublicKey\fR, and returns the plaintext (message digest). This is a low level signature verification operation used for instance by older versions of the SSL protocol. See also public_key:decrypt_public/2,3

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.

.PP
\fBWARNING: \fRThis is a legacy function, for security reasons do not use with rsa_pkcs1_padding. For digital signatures use of \fIverify/5\fR together with \fIsign/4\fR is the prefered solution.



.RE
.B
\fBpublic_encrypt(Algorithm, PlainText, PublicKey, Options) ->\fR
\fB                        CipherText\fR
\fB                        when\fR
\fB                            Algorithm :: pk_encrypt_decrypt_algs(),\fR
\fB                            PlainText :: binary(),\fR
\fB                            PublicKey :: rsa_public() | engine_key_ref(),\fR
\fB                            Options :: pk_encrypt_decrypt_opts(),\fR
\fB                            CipherText :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Encrypt using a public key.

.PP
Encrypts the \fIPlainText\fR (message digest) using the \fIPublicKey\fR and returns the \fICipherText\fR. This is a low level signature operation used for instance by older versions of the SSL protocol. See also public_key:encrypt_public/2,3

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.

.PP
\fBWARNING: \fRThis is a legacy function, for security reasons do not use together with rsa_pkcs1_padding.



.RE
.B
\fBrand_seed() -> {rand:alg_handler(crypto), rand_plugin_state()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Create a generator for \fIrand\fR and save it in the process dictionary.

.PP
Equivalent to \fIrand_seed_s/0\fR but also saves the returned state object (generator) in the process dictionary.  That is, it is equivalent to \fIrand:seed(rand_seed_s())\fR.

.PP
See \fIrand:seed/1\fR and \fIrand_seed_s/0\fR.

.PP
\fB\fIExample\fR\fR

.IP
.nf
_ = crypto:rand_seed(),
IntegerValue = rand:uniform(42), % 1 .. 42
FloatValue = rand:uniform().     % [0.0, 1.0)

.fi

.RS 4
.PP
\fBNote \fR

.PP
Note that when using the process dictionary for cryptographically secure random numbers one has to ensure that no code called between initializing the generator and between generating numbers accidentally alters the generator state in the process dictionary. The safe approach is to use the \fIrand\fR functions that do not use the process dictionary but take an explicit state argument: the ones suffixed \fI_s\fR.  Thereby it is rather \fIrand_seed_s/0\fR that should be used instead of this function.

.RE


.RE
.B
\fBrand_seed(binary()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Mixes in the bytes of the given binary into the internal state of OpenSSL's random number generator.

.PP
This calls the RAND_seed function from OpenSSL. Only use this if the system you are running on does not have enough "randomness" built in. Normally this is when \fIstrong_rand_bytes/1\fR or a generator from \fIrand_seed_alg_s/1\fR raises \fIerror:low_entropy\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBrand_seed_alg(Alg :: crypto) ->\fR
\fB                       {rand:alg_handler(crypto), rand_plugin_state()};\fR
\fB                   (Alg :: crypto_cache) ->\fR
\fB                       {rand:alg_handler(crypto_cache),\fR
\fB                        rand_cache_state()};\fR
\fB                   (ExportState :: {crypto, rand_plugin_state()}) ->\fR
\fB                       {rand:alg_handler(crypto), rand_plugin_state()};\fR
\fB                   (ExportState :: {crypto_cache, rand_cache_state()}) ->\fR
\fB                       {rand:alg_handler(crypto_cache),\fR
\fB                        rand_cache_state()};\fR
\fB                   (ExportState :: {crypto_aes, rand_plugin_aes_state()}) ->\fR
\fB                       {rand:alg_handler(crypto_aes),\fR
\fB                        rand_plugin_aes_state()};\fR
\fB                   (ExportState ::\fR
\fB                        {crypto_prng1, rand_plugin_prng1_init_state()}) ->\fR
\fB                       {rand:alg_handler(crypto_prng1),\fR
\fB                        rand_plugin_prng1_init_state()};\fR
\fB                   (State) -> State\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           State ::\fR
\fB                               {rand:alg_handler(crypto),\fR
\fB                                rand_plugin_state()} |\fR
\fB                               {rand:alg_handler(crypto_cache),\fR
\fB                                rand_cache_state()} |\fR
\fB                               {rand:alg_handler(crypto_aes),\fR
\fB                                rand_plugin_aes_state()} |\fR
\fB                               {rand:alg_handler(crypto_prng1),\fR
\fB                                rand_plugin_prng1_state()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Create a generator for \fIrand\fR with specified algorithm, and save it in the process dictionary.

.PP
Equivalent to \fIrand_seed_alg_s/1\fR but also saves the returned state object (generator) in the process dictionary.  That is, equivalent to \fIrand:seed(rand_seed_alg_s(Alg))\fR.

.PP
See \fIrand:seed/1\fR and \fIrand_seed_alg_s/1\fR. Note the warning about the usage of the process dictionary in \fIrand_seed/0\fR.

.PP
\fB\fIExample\fR\fR

.IP
.nf
_ = crypto:rand_seed_alg(crypto_cache),
IntegerValue = rand:uniform(42), % 1 .. 42
FloatValue = rand:uniform().     % [0.0, 1.0)

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBrand_seed_alg(Alg :: crypto_aes, Seed :: iodata()) ->\fR
\fB                       {rand:alg_handler(crypto_aes),\fR
\fB                        rand_plugin_aes_state()};\fR
\fB                   (Alg :: crypto_prng1, Seed :: iodata()) ->\fR
\fB                       {rand:alg_handler(crypto_prng1),\fR
\fB                        rand_plugin_prng1_state()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Create and seed a generator for \fIrand\fR with specified algorithm, and save it in the process dictionary.

.PP
Equivalent to \fIrand_seed_alg_s/2\fR but also saves the returned state object (generator) in the process dictionary.  That is, equivalent to \fIrand:seed(rand_seed_alg_s(Alg, Seed))\fR.

.PP
See \fIrand:seed/1\fR and \fIrand_seed_alg_s/2\fR. Note the warning about the usage of the process dictionary in \fIrand_seed/0\fR.

.PP
\fB\fIExample\fR\fR

.IP
.nf
_ = crypto:rand_seed_alg(crypto_aes, "my seed"),
IntegerValue = rand:uniform(42), % 1 .. 42
FloatValue = rand:uniform(),     % [0.0, 1.0)
_ = crypto:rand_seed_alg(crypto_aes, "my seed"),
IntegerValue = rand:uniform(42), % Same values
FloatValue = rand:uniform().     % again

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBrand_seed_alg_s(Alg :: crypto) ->\fR
\fB                         {rand:alg_handler(crypto), rand_plugin_state()};\fR
\fB                     (Alg :: crypto_cache) ->\fR
\fB                         {rand:alg_handler(crypto_cache),\fR
\fB                          rand_cache_state()};\fR
\fB                     (ExportState :: {crypto, rand_plugin_state()}) ->\fR
\fB                         {rand:alg_handler(crypto), rand_plugin_state()};\fR
\fB                     (ExportState :: {crypto_cache, rand_cache_state()}) ->\fR
\fB                         {rand:alg_handler(crypto_cache),\fR
\fB                          rand_cache_state()};\fR
\fB                     (ExportState ::\fR
\fB                          {crypto_aes, rand_plugin_aes_state()}) ->\fR
\fB                         {rand:alg_handler(crypto_aes),\fR
\fB                          rand_plugin_aes_state()};\fR
\fB                     (ExportState ::\fR
\fB                          {crypto_prng1, rand_plugin_prng1_init_state()}) ->\fR
\fB                         {rand:alg_handler(crypto_prng1),\fR
\fB                          rand_plugin_prng1_init_state()};\fR
\fB                     (State) -> State\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             State ::\fR
\fB                                 {rand:alg_handler(crypto),\fR
\fB                                  rand_plugin_state()} |\fR
\fB                                 {rand:alg_handler(crypto_cache),\fR
\fB                                  rand_cache_state()} |\fR
\fB                                 {rand:alg_handler(crypto_aes),\fR
\fB                                  rand_plugin_aes_state()} |\fR
\fB                                 {rand:alg_handler(crypto_prng1),\fR
\fB                                  rand_plugin_prng1_state()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Create a generator for \fIrand\fR with specified algorithm.

.PP
Create a state object (generator) for random number generation, which when used by the \fIrand\fR functions produce \fBcryptographically strong\fR random number.

.PP
See \fIrand:seed_s/1\fR and for example \fIrand:uniform_s/2\fR.

.PP
\fBWith \fR\fB\fIAlg = crypto\fR\fR

.PP
The created generator uses OpenSSL's \fIBN_rand_range\fR for uniform integers and floats.

.PP
The generator also implements generating bytes efficiently with OpenSSL's \fIRAND_bytes\fR, just like \fIstrong_rand_bytes/1\fR. See also \fIrand:bytes_s/2\fR.  \fISince OTP @OTP-19882@\fR.

.PP
Because the OpenSSL library is called for every request, this generator has got a very small generator state, but a large call overhead, so for numbers and small numbers of bytes (about 10), it becomes \fIvery\fR slow compared to the default PRNG in the \fIrand\fR module.  This is an unfair comparison because a PRNG is not cryptographically strong.  Still, for a larger numbers of bytes, (about 1 000 or more) this generator is the fastest.

.PP
This function is equivalent to \fIrand_seed_s/0\fR.

.PP
\fBWith \fR\fB\fIAlg = crypto_cache\fR\fR

.PP
The created generator fetches random data with OpenSSL's \fIRAND_bytes\fR, just like \fIstrong_rand_bytes/1\fR, and caches it in the generator's state. Then 56 bit numbers are extracted from the cache, which makes operations in module \fIrand\fR fast on 64 bit machines.

.PP
The generator also implements extracting bytes efficiently. See also \fIrand:bytes_s/2\fR.  \fISince OTP @OTP-19882@\fR.

.PP
Caching random data improves \fIamortized\fR performance a lot so for numbers it becomes less than a factor 2 slower than the default PRNG in the \fIrand\fR module.  For bytes it performs very much like for \fIAlg = crypto\fR above.

.PP
Since this generator caches random data it is a bad idea to copy its state in an attempt to fork into multiple generators. The forked generators will produce the same numbers until their caches are empty, which cannot be regarded as cryptographically strong, and is probably never useful.

.PP
\fB\fIExample\fR\fR

.IP
.nf
S0 = crypto:rand_seed_alg_s(crypto_cache),
{IntegerValue, S1} = rand:uniform(42, S0), % 1 .. 42
{FloatValue, S2} = rand:uniform(S1).       % [0.0, 1.0)

.fi

.PP
These generators may cause the \fIrand\fR functions using the returned state object to raise the exception \fIerror:low_entropy\fR in case the random generator failed due to lack of secure "randomness".

.PP
The cache size can be changed from its default value using the crypto app's  configuration parameter \fIrand_cache_size\fR.

.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRThe state returned from this function cannot be used to get a reproducible random sequence as from the other \fIrand\fR functions, since that would not be cryptographically safe. In fact when random data is cached some numbers may get reproduced, but this is unpredictable. The only supported usage is to generate one distinct random sequence.


.PP
\fBWith argument \fR\fB\fIExportState\fR\fR

.PP
For completeness, this function accepts an \fIExportState\fR from \fIrand:export_seed_s/1\fR used on one of this module's generators. This function can probably only be useful for algorithm \fIcrypto_aes\fR.

.PP
For algorithm \fIcrypto\fR it is not very useful since the produced numbers are as unpredictable for a new generator as for one re-created with this function.

.PP
The same goes for algorithm \fIcrypto_cache\fR, but its exported state may contain cached random numbers which might delay having to call OpenSSL the first time, so there is a possible slight performance gain.

.PP
For algorithm \fIcrypto_aes\fR this function works as described in \fIrand:export_seed_s/1\fR and \fIrand:seed_s/1\fR.

.PP
For algorithm \fIcrypto_prng1\fR this function only works as described in \fIrand:export_seed_s/1\fR and \fIrand:seed_s/1\fR on the initial state after creation (seeding).  After the first random number has been created, the state contains a \fIcrypto_state/0\fR that does not survive a roundtrip through Erlang's external term format.

.PP
\fBWith argument \fR\fB\fIState\fR\fR

.PP
For completeness, this function accepts a \fIState\fR just as \fIrand:seed_s\fR does. Calling this function with a \fIState\fR from one of the algorithms in this module only passes the state through, it is a no-op.


.RE
.B
\fBrand_seed_alg_s(Alg :: crypto_aes, Seed :: iodata()) ->\fR
\fB                         {rand:alg_handler(crypto_aes),\fR
\fB                          rand_plugin_aes_state()};\fR
\fB                     (Alg :: crypto_prng1, Seed :: iodata()) ->\fR
\fB                         {rand:alg_handler(crypto_prng1),\fR
\fB                          rand_plugin_prng1_state()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Create and seed a generator for \fIrand\fR with specified algorithm.

.PP
Create a state object (generator) for random number generation, which when used by the \fIrand\fR functions produce \fBcryptographically unpredictable\fR random numbers, that can be reproduced by re-using the same \fISeed\fR.

.PP
See \fIrand:seed_s/1\fR, and for example \fIrand:uniform_s/2\fR, and compare to \fIrand_seed_alg/1\fR.

.PP
The state objects created by this function has cached data so they use much more memory than the generators in the \fIrand\fR module.

.PP
\fBWith \fR\fB\fIAlg = crypto_aes\fR\fR

.PP
The Xoroshiro928 generator from the \fIrand\fR module is used as a counter. The generator's state is scrambled through AES-256 to create a 58-bit pseudo random value.  This gives a long period (2^928 - 1).

.PP
The result should be statistically completely unpredictable random values, since the scrambling is cryptographically strong and the period is extremely long.  But the generated numbers are not to be regarded as cryptographically strong since there is no re-keying schedule, and since the sequence is repeated for the same seed.


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
If you need cryptographically strong random numbers use \fIrand_seed_alg_s/1\fR with \fIAlg =:= crypto\fR or \fIAlg =:= crypto_cache\fR.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
If you need to be able to repeat the sequence use this function with \fIAlg =:= crypto_aes\fR (or \fIAlg =:= crypto_prng1\fR, below).

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
If you do not need the statistical quality of these generators, there are faster generators in the \fIrand\fR module. The \fIamortized\fR speed of this generator is about 3 times slower than the \fIrand\fR module's \fIdefault algorithm\fR.

.RE

.PP
\fB\fIExample\fR\fR

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = crypto:rand_seed_alg_s(crypto_aes, "my seed").
2> %% 1..42
   {IntegerValue, S1} = rand:uniform_s(42, S0).
3> %% [0.0, 1.0)
   {FloatValue, S2} = rand:uniform_s(S1).
4> {IntegerValue,FloatValue}.
{9,0.7624867055217882}
5> S3 = crypto:rand_seed_alg_s(crypto_aes, "my seed").
6> %% Same values
   {IntegerValue, S4} = rand:uniform_s(42, S3).
7> %% again
   {FloatValue, S5} = rand:uniform_s(S4).

.fi

.PP
Thanks to the used generator the state object supports the \fIrand:jump/0,1\fR function with distance 2^512.

.PP
Numbers are generated in batches and for speed reasons cached in the generator's state. The cache size can be changed from its default value using the crypto app's  configuration parameter \fIrand_cache_size\fR.

.PP
Generating bytes, see \fIrand:bytes_s/2\fR, is done from the cached numbers, which limits the performance as for generating numbers.  \fIAlg = crypto\fR, is faster, for larger numbers of bytes significantly faster, but cannot be used to reproduce a sequence.  Another alternative is \fIAlg = crypto_prng1\fR that follows here.

.PP
\fBWith \fR\fB\fIAlg = crypto_prng1\fR\fR\fB \fR\fB\fISince OTP @OTP-19882@\fR\fR\fB.\fR

.PP
The created generator uses a stream cipher to encrypt data blocks of zeros, which effectively results in the stream cipher's key stream as binary data. The binary data is cached in the generator's state to achieve good \fIamortized\fR speed.  From the cached data 58 bit numbers are extracted, to facilitate fast operations in the \fIrand\fR module. The cache size can be changed from its default value using the crypto app's  configuration parameter \fIrand_cache_size\fR.

.PP
This generator also implements extracting bytes efficiently through \fIrand:bytes_s/2\fR.

.PP
The key stream from a stream cipher is cryptographically unpredictable, which should result in statistically completely unpredictable random values, but the generated numbers are not to be regarded as cryptographically strong since there is no re-keying schedule, and since the sequence is repeated for the same seed.

.PP
For generating numbers, this generator is about 2 times slower than the default PRNG in the \fIrand\fR module.  For generating bytes, it is significantly faster, for any number of bytes. Compared to \fIAlg = crypto\fR, this generator has much less overhead, so for small numbers of bytes it is much faster.  Break-even is a bit above the cache size, and over that \fIAlg = crypto\fR is faster, but cannot be used to reproduce a sequence.

.PP
\fB\fIExample\fR\fR

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = crypto:rand_seed_alg_s(crypto_prng1, "my seed").
2> %% 1..42
   {IntegerValue, S1} = rand:uniform_s(42, S0).
3> {Bytes, S2} = rand:bytes_s(7, S1).
4> {IntegerValue,Bytes}.
{20,<<52,185,212,38,248,228,127>>}
5> S3 = crypto:rand_seed_alg_s(crypto_prng1, "my seed").
6> %% Same values
   {IntegerValue, S4} = rand:uniform_s(42, S3).
7> %% again
   {Bytes, S5} = rand:bytes_s(7, S4).

.fi

.PP
The generator's state contains a \fIcrypto_state/0\fR which refers to the same encryption state even when copied, and the generator's state contains \fIcached\fR random data.  It is therefore a bad idea to copy the state in an attempt to fork into multiple generators. The forked generators will produce the same numbers until their caches are empty, and then refill their caches with different sections of the keystream. This is probably never useful.

.PP
The created initial state, however, can be copied and exported, as descrided for \fIrand:export_seed_s/1\fR and \fIrand:seed_s/1\fR, since the \fIcrypto_state/0\fR is not created until the first random value is generated.  An exported subsequent generator state cannot be passed intact through Erlang's external term format, and \fIrand_seed_alg_s/1\fR will fail for an exported state of this generator that is not an initial state.

.PP
\fIrand:jump/1\fR is implemented for this generator, but also only for its initial state.  A jump, for this generator, is implemented by incrementing the cipher's IV to create a distinct keystream. This is not much different from using different seed values, but avoids a call to the hash function that is used when seeding.

.PP
\fB\fIExample\fR\fR

.IP
.nf
1> Sa0 = crypto:rand_seed_alg_s(crypto_prng1, "my seed").
2> Sb0 = rand:jump(Sa0).
3> {BytesA, Sa1} = rand:bytes_s(7, Sa0).
4> {BytesB, Sb1} = rand:bytes_s(7, Sb0).
5> BytesA.
<<77,185,41,162,118,82,190>>
6> BytesB.
<<160,61,224,29,177,30,68>>
7> SA0 = crypto:rand_seed_alg_s(crypto_prng1, "my seed").
8> SB0 = rand:jump(SA0).
%% Same values again
9> {BytesA, SA1} = rand:bytes_s(7, SA0).
10> {BytesB, SB1} = rand:bytes_s(7, SB0).

.fi

.PP
\fB\fIAlgorithm details\fR\fR

.PP
The \fISeed\fR is hashed with SHA-384 to create a Key and IV for AES-256 that is run in CTR mode over blocks of zero data.


.RE
.B
\fBrand_seed_s() -> {rand:alg_handler(crypto), rand_plugin_state()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Create a generator for \fIrand\fR.

.PP
Create a state object (generator) for random number generation, which when used by the \fIrand\fR functions produce \fBcryptographically strong\fR random numbers (based on OpenSSL's \fIBN_rand_range\fR function). See \fIrand:seed_s/1\fR, and for example \fIrand:uniform_s/2\fR.

.PP
This generator also implements generating bytes efficiently (based on OpenSSL's \fIRAND_bytes\fR function). See \fIrand:bytes_s/2\fR and \fIstrong_rand_bytes/1\fR. \fISince OTP @OTP-19882@\fR.

.PP
\fB\fIExample\fR\fR

.IP
.nf
S0 = crypto:rand_seed_s(),
{RandomInteger, S1} = rand:uniform_s(1000, S0).

.fi

.PP
May cause the \fIrand\fR functions using this state object to raise the exception \fIerror:low_entropy\fR in case the random generator failed due to lack of secure "randomness".

.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRThe state returned from this function cannot be used to get a reproducible random sequence as from the other \fIrand\fR functions, since that would not be cryptographically safe. The only supported usage is to generate one distinct random sequence.



.RE
.B
\fBrand_uniform(crypto_integer(), crypto_integer()) ->\fR
\fB                      crypto_integer().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: crypto:rand_uniform/2 is deprecated; use strong_rand_range/1 instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Generate a random integer number.

.PP
The interval is \fIFrom =< N < To\fR. Uses the \fIcrypto\fR library pseudo-random number generator. \fITo\fR must be larger than \fIFrom\fR.

.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRThis function is deprecated because it originally used the OpenSSL method BN_pseudo_rand_range that was not cryptographically strong and could not run out of entropy. That behaviour changed in OpenSSL and this function cannot be fixed without making it raise \fIerror:low_entropy\fR, which is not backwards compatible. Instead, use \fIstrong_rand_range(To - From) + From\fR Be aware of the possible \fIerror:low_entropy\fR exception.



.RE
.B
\fBsign(Algorithm, DigestType, Msg, Key, Options) -> Signature\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  Algorithm :: pk_sign_verify_algs(),\fR
\fB                  DigestType ::\fR
\fB                      rsa_digest_type() |\fR
\fB                      dss_digest_type() |\fR
\fB                      ecdsa_digest_type() |\fR
\fB                      none,\fR
\fB                  Msg :: iodata() | {digest, iodata()},\fR
\fB                  Key ::\fR
\fB                      rsa_private() |\fR
\fB                      dss_private() |\fR
\fB                      [ecdsa_private() | ecdsa_params()] |\fR
\fB                      [eddsa_private() | eddsa_params()] |\fR
\fB                      mldsa_private() |\fR
\fB                      slh_dsa_private() |\fR
\fB                      engine_key_ref(),\fR
\fB                  Options :: pk_sign_verify_opts(),\fR
\fB                  Signature :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Create a digital signature.

.PP
The msg is either the binary "cleartext" data to be signed or it is the hashed value of "cleartext" i.e. the digest (plaintext).

.PP
Algorithm \fIdss\fR can only be used together with digest type \fIsha\fR.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.

.PP
See also \fIpublic_key:sign/3\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBstart() -> ok | {error, Reason :: term()}.\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: crypto:start/0 is deprecated; use application:start(crypto) instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Use \fIapplication:start(crypto)\fR instead.

.PP
\fBWARNING: \fRThis function does not work if FIPS mode is to be enabled. FIPS mode will be disabled even if configuration parameter \fIfips_mode\fR is set to \fItrue\fR. Use \fIapplication:start(crypto)\fR instead.



.RE
.B
\fBstop() -> ok | {error, Reason :: term()}.\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: crypto:stop/0 is deprecated; use application:stop(crypto) instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Use \fIapplication:stop(crypto)\fR instead.


.RE
.B
\fBstrong_rand_bytes(N :: non_neg_integer()) -> binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Generate bytes with randomly uniform values 0..255.

.PP
Returns the result in a binary with \fIN\fR bytes.

.PP
Uses a cryptographically secure PRNG seeded and periodically mixed with operating system provided entropy. By default this is the \fIRAND_bytes\fR method from OpenSSL.

.PP
May raise exception \fIerror:low_entropy\fR in case the random generator failed due to lack of secure "randomness".


.RE
.B
\fBstrong_rand_range(Range :: pos_integer()) ->\fR
\fB                           N :: non_neg_integer();\fR
\fB                       (Range :: binary()) -> N :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Generate a random integer in a specified range.

.PP
The returned random integer is in the interval is \fI0\fR =< \fIN\fR < \fIRange\fR.

.PP
Uses the \fIcrypto\fR library random number generator \fIBN_rand_range\fR.

.PP
If the \fIRange\fR argument is a \fIpos_integer/0\fR the return value is a \fInon_neg_integer/0\fR.  If the \fIRange\fR argument is a positive integer in a \fIbinary/0\fR, the return value is a non-negative integer in a \fIbinary/0\fR.

.PP
May raise exception \fIerror:low_entropy\fR in case the random generator failed due to lack of secure "randomness".


.RE
.B
\fBsupports(Type) -> Support\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      Type ::\fR
\fB                          hashs | ciphers | kems | public_keys | macs |\fR
\fB                          curves | rsa_opts,\fR
\fB                      Support ::\fR
\fB                          Hashs | Ciphers | KEMs | PKs | Macs | Curves |\fR
\fB                          RSAopts,\fR
\fB                      Hashs ::\fR
\fB                          [sha1() |\fR
\fB                           sha2() |\fR
\fB                           sha3() |\fR
\fB                           sha3_xof() |\fR
\fB                           blake2() |\fR
\fB                           ripemd160 |\fR
\fB                           compatibility_only_hash()],\fR
\fB                      Ciphers :: [cipher()],\fR
\fB                      KEMs :: [kem()],\fR
\fB                      PKs ::\fR
\fB                          [rsa | dss | ecdsa | dh | ecdh | eddh |\fR
\fB                           ec_gf2m],\fR
\fB                      Macs :: [hmac | cmac | poly1305],\fR
\fB                      Curves ::\fR
\fB                          [ec_named_curve() |\fR
\fB                           edwards_curve_dh() |\fR
\fB                           edwards_curve_ed()],\fR
\fB                      RSAopts :: [rsa_sign_verify_opt() | rsa_opt()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get which crypto algorithms that are supported by the underlying libcrypto library.

.PP
See \fIhash_info/1\fR and \fIcipher_info/1\fR for information about the hash and cipher algorithms.


.RE
.B
\fBverify(Algorithm, DigestType, Msg, Signature, Key, Options) ->\fR
\fB                Result\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    Algorithm :: pk_sign_verify_algs(),\fR
\fB                    DigestType ::\fR
\fB                        rsa_digest_type() |\fR
\fB                        dss_digest_type() |\fR
\fB                        ecdsa_digest_type() |\fR
\fB                        none,\fR
\fB                    Msg :: iodata() | {digest, iodata()},\fR
\fB                    Signature :: binary(),\fR
\fB                    Key ::\fR
\fB                        rsa_public() |\fR
\fB                        dss_public() |\fR
\fB                        [ecdsa_public() | ecdsa_params()] |\fR
\fB                        [eddsa_public() | eddsa_params()] |\fR
\fB                        mldsa_public() |\fR
\fB                        slh_dsa_public() |\fR
\fB                        engine_key_ref(),\fR
\fB                    Options :: pk_sign_verify_opts(),\fR
\fB                    Result :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Verify a digital signature.

.PP
The msg is either the binary "cleartext" data to be signed or it is the hashed value of "cleartext" i.e. the digest (plaintext).

.PP
Algorithm \fIdss\fR can only be used together with digest type \fIsha\fR.

.PP
Uses the 3-tuple style for error handling.

.PP
See also \fIpublic_key:verify/4\fR.


.RE
