.TH ct_cover 3 "common_test 1.30" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
ct_cover \- \fICommon Test\fR framework code coverage support module.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This module exports help functions for performing code coverage analysis.

.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBadd_nodes(Nodes) -> {ok, StartedNodes} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       Nodes :: node() | [node()],\fR
\fB                       StartedNodes :: [node()],\fR
\fB                       Reason :: cover_not_running | term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Adds nodes to current cover test. Notice that this only works if cover support is active.

.PP
To have effect, this function is to be called from \fIinit_per_suite/1\fR (see \fIct_suite\fR) before any tests are performed.


.RE
.B
\fBcross_cover_analyse(Level, Tests) -> ok\fR
\fB                             when\fR
\fB                                 Level :: overview | details,\fR
\fB                                 Tests ::\fR
\fB                                     [{Tag :: atom(),\fR
\fB                                       Dir :: file:name_all()}].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Accumulates cover results over multiple tests. See section Cross Cover Analysis in the User's Guide.


.RE
.B
\fBremove_nodes(Nodes) -> ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          Nodes :: node() | [node()],\fR
\fB                          Reason ::\fR
\fB                              cover_not_running | not_main_node | term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Removes nodes from the current cover test.

.PP
Call this function to stop cover test on nodes previously added with \fIct_cover:add_nodes/1\fR. Results on the remote node are transferred to the \fICommon Test\fR node.


.RE
