.TH ct_slave 3 "common_test 1.30" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
ct_slave \- \fICommon Test\fR framework functions for starting and stopping nodes for Large-Scale Testing.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This module exports functions used by the \fICommon Test\fR Master to start and stop "slave" nodes. It is the default callback module for the \fI{init, node_start}\fR term in the Test Specification.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBstart_options() ::\fR
\fB          [{username, string()} |\fR
\fB           {password, string()} |\fR
\fB           {boot_timeout, non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB           {init_timeout, non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB           {startup_timeout, non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB           {startup_functions, [mfa()]} |\fR
\fB           {monitor_master, boolean()} |\fR
\fB           {kill_if_fail, boolean()} |\fR
\fB           {erl_flags, string()} |\fR
\fB           {env,\fR
\fB            [{Name :: os:env_var_name(),\fR
\fB              Val :: os:env_var_value() | false}]} |\fR
\fB           {ssh_port, inet:port_number()} |\fR
\fB           {ssh_opts, ssh:client_options()}].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Options used for starting \fIct_slave\fR node.


.RE
.B
\fBstop_options() :: [{stop_timeout, non_neg_integer()}].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Options used for stopping \fIct_slave\fR node.


.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBstart(Node) -> ok | {error, Reason, Node}\fR
\fB               when Node :: node(), Reason :: atom().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: ct_slave:start/1 is deprecated; use ?CT_PEER(), or the 'peer' module instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Starts an Erlang node with name \fINode\fR on the local host.

.PP
See also \fIct_slave:start/3\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBstart(HostOrNode, NodeOrOpts) -> ok | {error, Reason, Node}\fR
\fB               when\fR
\fB                   HostOrNode :: atom() | node(),\fR
\fB                   NodeOrOpts :: node() | start_options(),\fR
\fB                   Reason :: atom(),\fR
\fB                   Node :: node().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: ct_slave:start/2 is deprecated; use ?CT_PEER(), or the 'peer' module instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Starts an Erlang node with default options on a specified host, or on the local host with specified options. That is, the call is interpreted as \fIstart(Host, Node)\fR when the second argument is atom-valued and \fIstart(Node, Opts)\fR when it is list-valued.

.PP
See also \fIct_slave:start/3\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBstart(Host, Node, Opts) -> ok | {error, Reason, Node}\fR
\fB               when\fR
\fB                   Host :: atom(),\fR
\fB                   Node :: node(),\fR
\fB                   Opts :: start_options(),\fR
\fB                   Reason :: atom().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: ct_slave:start/3 is deprecated; use ?CT_PEER(), or the 'peer' module instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Starts an Erlang node with name \fINode\fR on host \fIHost\fR as specified by the combination of options in \fIOpts\fR.

.PP
Options \fIUsername\fR and \fIPassword\fR are used to log on to the remote host \fIHost\fR. \fIUsername\fR, if omitted, defaults to the current username. \fIPassword\fR is empty by default.

.PP
A list of functions specified in option \fIStartup\fR are executed after startup of the node. Notice that all used modules are to be present in the code path on \fIHost\fR.

.PP
The time-outs are applied as follows:

BootTimeout
.RS 2
The time to start the Erlang node, in seconds. Defaults to 3 seconds. If the node is not pingable within this time, the result 
\fI{error, boot_timeout, NodeName}\fR is returned.

.RE

InitTimeout
.RS 2
The time to wait for the node until it calls the internal callback function informing master about a successful startup. Defaults to 1 second. In case of a timed out message, the result 
\fI{error, init_timeout, NodeName}\fR is returned.

.RE

StartupTimeout
.RS 2
The time to wait until the node stops to run 
\fIStartupFunctions\fR. Defaults to 1 second. If this time-out occurs, the result \fI{error, startup_timeout, NodeName}\fR is returned.

.RE

.PP
\fIOptions:\fR

monitor_master
.RS 2
Specifies if the slave node is to be stopped if the master node stops. Defaults to 
\fIfalse\fR.

.RE

kill_if_fail
.RS 2
Specifies if the slave node is to be killed if a time-out occurs during initialization or startup. Defaults to 
\fItrue\fR. Notice that the node can also be still alive it the boot time-out occurred, but it is not killed in this case.

.RE

erl_flags
.RS 2
Specifies which flags are added to the parameters of the executable 
\fIerl\fR.

.RE

env
.RS 2
Specifies a list of environment variables that will extend the environment.


.RE

.PP
\fISpecial return values:\fR


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fI{error, already_started, NodeName}\fR if the node with the specified name is already started on a specified host.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fI{error, started_not_connected, NodeName}\fR if the node is started, but not connected to the master node.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fI{error, not_alive, NodeName}\fR if the node on which \fIct_slave:start/3\fR is called, is not alive. Notice that \fINodeName\fR is the name of the current node in this case.

.RE


.RE
.B
\fBstop(Node) -> {ok, Node} | {error, Reason, Node}\fR
\fB              when Node :: node(), Reason :: atom().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: ct_slave:stop/1 is deprecated; use ?CT_PEER(), or the 'peer' module instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Stops the running Erlang node with name \fINode\fR on the local host.


.RE
.B
\fBstop(HostOrNode, NodeOrOpts) -> {ok, Node} | {error, Reason, Node}\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  HostOrNode :: atom() | Node,\fR
\fB                  Node :: node(),\fR
\fB                  NodeOrOpts :: Node | stop_options(),\fR
\fB                  Reason :: atom().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: ct_slave:stop/2 is deprecated; use ?CT_PEER(), or the 'peer' module instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Stops the running Erlang node with name \fINode\fR on host \fIHost\fR.


.RE
