.TH debugger 3 "debugger 6.0.3" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
debugger \- The Erlang Debugger for debugging and testing of Erlang programs.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBquick(Module, Name, Args) -> term()\fR
\fB               when Module :: atom(), Name :: atom(), Args :: [term()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Debugs a single process.

.PP
The module \fIModule\fR is interpreted and \fIapply(Module, Name, Args)\fR is called. This opens an "Attach Process" window. For details, see the User's Guide.


.RE
.B
\fBstart() -> term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Starts Debugger.

.PP
Started by this function, Debugger interprets code on all known nodes.


.RE
.B
\fBstart(Mode) -> term() when Mode :: local | global | wx;\fR
\fB           (File) -> term() when File :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Starts Debugger.

.PP
If \fIModeOrFile\fR is a string, it is assumed to be the name of a file, and Debugger tries to load its settings from this file. For details about settings, see the User's Guide.

.PP
If \fIModeOrFile\fR is atom \fIlocal\fR, Debugger interprets code only at the current node. If \fIModeOrFile\fR is \fIglobal\fR, Debugger interprets code on all known nodes.


.RE
.B
\fBstart(Mode, File) -> term()\fR
\fB               when Mode :: local | global, File :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Starts Debugger.

.PP
Debugger tries to load its settings from the file named by \fIFile\fR. For details about settings, see the User's Guide.

.PP
If \fIMode\fR is \fIlocal\fR, Debugger interprets code only on the current node. If \fIMode\fR is \fIglobal\fR, Debugger interprets code on all known nodes.


.RE
