.TH dict 3 "stdlib 7.3" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
dict \- A Key-value dictionary.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The representation of a dictionary is not defined.

.PP
This module provides the same interface as the \fIorddict\fR module. One difference is that while this module considers two keys as different if they do not match (\fI=:=\fR), \fIorddict\fR considers two keys as different if and only if they do not compare equal (\fI==\fR).

.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRFor new code, prefer \fImaps\fR over this module.


.PP
\fBSee Also\fR

.PP
\fIgb_trees\fR, \fIorddict\fR, \fImaps\fR

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBdict() :: dict(_, _).\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fB-opaque dict(Key, Value) \fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Dictionary as returned by \fInew/0\fR.


.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBappend(Key, Value, Dict1) -> Dict2\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    Dict1 :: dict(Key, Value), Dict2 :: dict(Key, Value).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Appends a new \fIValue\fR to the current list of values associated with \fIKey\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict0 = dict:from_list([{a,[]}]).
2> Dict1 = dict:append(a, 1, Dict0).
3> dict:to_list(Dict1).
[{a,[1]}]
4> Dict2 = dict:append(a, 10, Dict1).
5> dict:to_list(Dict2).
[{a,[1,10]}]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBappend_list(Key, ValList, Dict1) -> Dict2\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         Dict1 :: dict(Key, Value),\fR
\fB                         Dict2 :: dict(Key, Value),\fR
\fB                         ValList :: [Value].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Appends a list of values \fIValList\fR to the current list of values associated with \fIKey\fR.

.PP
An exception is generated if the initial value associated with \fIKey\fR is not a list of values.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict0 = dict:from_list([{a,[]}]).
2> Dict1 = dict:append_list(a, [1,2,3], Dict0).
3> dict:to_list(Dict1).
[{a,[1,2,3]}]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBerase(Key, Dict1) -> Dict2\fR
\fB               when Dict1 :: dict(Key, Value), Dict2 :: dict(Key, Value).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Erases an item with a given key from a dictionary.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict0 = dict:from_list([{2,b},{1,a}]).
2> Dict1 = dict:erase(2, Dict0).
3> dict:to_list(Dict1).
[{1,a}]
4> Dict2 = dict:erase(99, Dict0).

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfetch(Key, Dict) -> Value when Dict :: dict(Key, Value).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the value associated with \fIKey\fR in dictionary \fIDict\fR.

.PP
This function assumes that \fIKey\fR is present in dictionary \fIDict\fR, and an exception is generated if \fIKey\fR is not in the dictionary.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict = dict:from_list([{2,b},{1,a}]).
2> dict:fetch(1, Dict).
a

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfetch_keys(Dict) -> Keys\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        Dict :: dict(Key, Value :: term()),\fR
\fB                        Keys :: [Key].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a list of all keys in dictionary \fIDict\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict = dict:from_list([{2,b},{1,a}]).
2> lists:sort(dict:fetch_keys(Dict)).
[1,2]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfilter(Pred, Dict1) -> Dict2\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    Pred :: fun((Key, Value) -> boolean()),\fR
\fB                    Dict1 :: dict(Key, Value),\fR
\fB                    Dict2 :: dict(Key, Value).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a dictionary of all keys and values in \fIDict1\fR for which \fIPred(Key, Value)\fR is \fItrue\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict0 = dict:from_list([{a,1},{b,2},{c,3}]).
2> Dict1 = dict:filter(fun(_, V) -> V rem 2 =:= 1 end, Dict0).
3> lists:sort(dict:to_list(Dict1)).
[{a,1},{c,3}]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfind(Key, Dict) -> {ok, Value} | error\fR
\fB              when Dict :: dict(Key, Value).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Searches for a key in dictionary \fIDict\fR.

.PP
Returns \fI{ok, Value}\fR, where \fIValue\fR is the value associated with \fIKey\fR, or \fIerror\fR if the key is not present in the dictionary.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict = dict:from_list([{2,b},{1,a}]).
2> dict:find(1, Dict).
{ok,a}
3> dict:find(99, Dict).
error

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfold(Fun, Acc0, Dict) -> Acc1\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  Fun :: fun((Key, Value, AccIn) -> AccOut),\fR
\fB                  Dict :: dict(Key, Value),\fR
\fB                  Acc0 :: Acc,\fR
\fB                  Acc1 :: Acc,\fR
\fB                  AccIn :: Acc,\fR
\fB                  AccOut :: Acc.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Calls \fIFun\fR on successive keys and values of dictionary \fIDict\fR together with an extra argument \fIAcc\fR (short for accumulator).

.PP
\fIFun\fR must return a new accumulator that is passed to the next call. \fIAcc0\fR is returned if the dictionary is empty.

.PP
The evaluation order is undefined.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict0 = dict:from_list([{a,1},{b,2},{c,3}]).
2> dict:fold(fun(_, N, Acc) -> Acc + N end, 0, Dict0).
6

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfrom_list(List) -> Dict\fR
\fB                   when Dict :: dict(Key, Value), List :: [{Key, Value}].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Converts the \fIKey\fR-\fIValue\fR list \fIList\fR to dictionary \fIDict\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict = dict:from_list([{2,b},{1,a}]).
2> lists:sort(dict:to_list(Dict)).
[{1,a},{2,b}]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBis_empty(Dict) -> boolean() when Dict :: dict().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fItrue\fR if dictionary \fIDict\fR has no elements; otherwise returns \fIfalse\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict = dict:new().
2> dict:is_empty(Dict).
true

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBis_key(Key, Dict) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                when Dict :: dict(Key, Value :: term()).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Tests whether \fIKey\fR is contained in dictionary \fIDict\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict = dict:from_list([{count,0}]).
2> dict:is_key(count, Dict).
true
3> dict:is_key(table, Dict).
false

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBmap(Fun, Dict1) -> Dict2\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Fun :: fun((Key, Value1) -> Value2),\fR
\fB                 Dict1 :: dict(Key, Value1),\fR
\fB                 Dict2 :: dict(Key, Value2).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Calls \fIFun\fR on successive keys and values of dictionary \fIDict1\fR to return a new value for each key.

.PP
The evaluation order is undefined.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict0 = dict:from_list([{a,1},{b,2},{c,3}]).
2> Dict1 = dict:map(fun(_, V) -> 2 * V end, Dict0).
3> lists:sort(dict:to_list(Dict1)).
[{a,2},{b,4},{c,6}]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBmerge(Fun, Dict1, Dict2) -> Dict3\fR
\fB               when\fR
\fB                   Fun :: fun((Key, Value1, Value2) -> Value),\fR
\fB                   Dict1 :: dict(Key, Value1),\fR
\fB                   Dict2 :: dict(Key, Value2),\fR
\fB                   Dict3 :: dict(Key, Value).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Merges two dictionaries, \fIDict1\fR and \fIDict2\fR, to create a new dictionary.

.PP
All the \fIKey\fR-\fIValue\fR pairs from both dictionaries are included in the new dictionary. If a key occurs in both dictionaries, \fIFun\fR is called with the key and both values to return a new value.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict0 = dict:from_list([{a,1},{b,2}]).
2> Dict1 = dict:from_list([{b,7},{c,99}]).
3> Dict2 = dict:merge(fun(_, V1, V2) -> V1 + V2 end, Dict0, Dict1).
4> lists:sort(dict:to_list(Dict2)).
[{a,1},{b,9},{c,99}]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBnew() -> dict().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Creates a new dictionary.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> dict:new().

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBsize(Dict) -> non_neg_integer() when Dict :: dict().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the number of elements in dictionary \fIDict\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict = dict:from_list([{2,b},{1,a}]).
2> dict:size(Dict).
2

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBstore(Key, Value, Dict1) -> Dict2\fR
\fB               when Dict1 :: dict(Key, Value), Dict2 :: dict(Key, Value).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Stores a \fIKey\fR-\fIValue\fR pair in dictionary \fIDict2\fR.

.PP
If \fIKey\fR already exists in \fIDict1\fR, the associated value is replaced by \fIValue\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict0 = dict:new().
2> Dict1 = dict:store(name, arne, Dict0).
3> dict:to_list(Dict1).
[{name,arne}]
4> Dict2 = dict:store(name, kalle, Dict1).
5> dict:to_list(Dict2).
[{name,kalle}]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBtake(Key, Dict) -> {Value, Dict1} | error\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  Dict :: dict(Key, Value),\fR
\fB                  Dict1 :: dict(Key, Value),\fR
\fB                  Key :: term(),\fR
\fB                  Value :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function returns a value from dictionary and a new dictionary without this value.

.PP
Returns \fIerror\fR if the key is not present in the dictionary.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict0 = dict:from_list([{2,b},{1,a}]).
2> {V, Dict2} = dict:take(1, Dict0).
3> V.
a
4> dict:to_list(Dict2).
[{2,b}]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBto_list(Dict) -> List\fR
\fB                 when Dict :: dict(Key, Value), List :: [{Key, Value}].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Converts a dictionary to a list representation.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict = dict:from_list([{2,b},{1,a}]).
2> lists:sort(dict:to_list(Dict)).
[{1,a},{2,b}]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBupdate(Key, Fun, Dict1) -> Dict2\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    Dict1 :: dict(Key, Value),\fR
\fB                    Dict2 :: dict(Key, Value),\fR
\fB                    Fun :: fun((Value1 :: Value) -> Value2 :: Value).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Updates a value in a dictionary by calling \fIFun\fR on the value to get a new value.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict0 = dict:from_list([{a,10}]).
2> Dict1 = dict:update(a, fun(N) -> N + 1 end, Dict0).
3> dict:to_list(Dict1).
[{a,11}]

.fi

.PP
An exception is generated if \fIKey\fR is not present in the dictionary.


.RE
.B
\fBupdate(Key, Fun, Initial, Dict1) -> Dict2\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    Dict1 :: dict(Key, Value),\fR
\fB                    Dict2 :: dict(Key, Value),\fR
\fB                    Fun :: fun((Value1 :: Value) -> Value2 :: Value),\fR
\fB                    Initial :: Value.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Updates a value in a dictionary by calling \fIFun\fR on the value to get a new value.

.PP
If \fIKey\fR is not present in the dictionary, \fIInitial\fR is stored as the first value.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict0 = dict:new().
2> Inc = fun(N) -> N + 1 end.
3> Dict1 = dict:update(a, Inc, 0, Dict0).
4> dict:to_list(Dict1).
[{a,0}]
5> Dict2 = dict:update(a, Inc, 0, Dict1).
6> dict:to_list(Dict2).
[{a,1}]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBupdate_counter(Key, Increment, Dict1) -> Dict2\fR
\fB                        when\fR
\fB                            Dict1 :: dict(Key, Value),\fR
\fB                            Dict2 :: dict(Key, Value),\fR
\fB                            Increment :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Adds \fIIncrement\fR to the value associated with \fIKey\fR and stores this value.

.PP
If \fIKey\fR is not present in the dictionary, \fIIncrement\fR is stored as the first value.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Dict0 = dict:new().
2> Dict1 = dict:update_counter(a, 10, Dict0).
3> dict:to_list(Dict1).
[{a,10}]
4> Dict2 = dict:update_counter(a, 10, Dict1).
5> dict:to_list(Dict2).
[{a,20}]

.fi


.RE
