.TH edoc_layout 3 "edoc 1.4.1" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
edoc_layout \- The standard HTML layout module for EDoc. See the \fI\fIedoc\fR\fR module for details on usage.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBSee also: \fR\fIedoc\fR.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBmodule(Element, Options) -> term()\fR
\fB                when Element :: edoc:edoc_module(), Options :: options().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The layout function.

.PP
Options to the standard layout:

.RS 4
.TP
\fB\fI{index_columns, integer()}\fR\fR
Specifies the number of column pairs used for the function index tables. The default value is 1.
.TP
\fB\fI{pretty_printer, atom()}\fR\fR
Specifies how types and specifications are pretty printed. If the value \fIerl_pp\fR is specified the Erlang pretty printer (the module \fIerl_pp\fR) will be used. The default is to do no pretty printing which implies that lines can be very long.
.TP
\fB\fI{stylesheet, string()}\fR\fR
Specifies the URI used for referencing the stylesheet. The default value is \fI"stylesheet.css"\fR. If an empty string is specified, no stylesheet reference will be generated.
.TP
\fB\fI{sort_functions, boolean()}\fR\fR
If \fItrue\fR, the detailed function descriptions are listed by name, otherwise they are listed in the order of occurrence in the source file. The default value is \fItrue\fR.
.TP
\fB\fI{xml_export, Module::atom()}\fR\fR
Specifies an \fI\fIxmerl\fR\fR callback module to be used for exporting the documentation. See \fI\fI//xmerl/xmerl:export_simple/3\fR\fR for details.
.RE

.PP
\fBSee also: \fR\fIedoc:layout/2\fR.


.RE
.SH CALLBACKS
.LP
.B
\fBmodule/2\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Layout entrypoint.


.RE
