.TH erl_error 3 "stdlib 7.3" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
erl_error \- This module provides functions for pretty-printing errors and exceptions. It is used by both the \fIshell\fR and by \fIproc_lib\fR to print exceptions.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
It is possible for the module raising an error to provide additional information by calling \fIerror/3\fR with extra error information. More details about this mechanism is described in EEP-54.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBcolumn() :: pos_integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Start column number. Default is 1.


.RE
.B
\fBformat_fun() :: fun((term(), column()) -> iolist()).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
A fun used to format function arguments for BIF and function calls. By default the following fun will be used:

.IP
.nf
fun(Term, I) -> io_lib:print(Term, I, 80, 30) end

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBformat_options() ::\fR
\fB          #{column => column(),\fR
\fB            stack_trim_fun => stack_trim_fun(),\fR
\fB            format_fun => format_fun()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
A map with formatting options.


.RE
.B
\fBstack_trim_fun() :: fun((module(), atom(), arity()) -> boolean()).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
A fun used to trim the end of the stacktrace. It is called with module, function, and arity from an entry from the stacktrace. The fun is to return \fItrue\fR if the entry should be trimmed, and \fIfalse\fR otherwise. The default value is:

.IP
.nf
fun(_, _, _) -> false end

.fi


.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBformat_exception(Class, Reason, StackTrace, Options) ->\fR
\fB                          unicode:chardata()\fR
\fB                          when\fR
\fB                              Class :: error | exit | throw,\fR
\fB                              Reason :: term(),\fR
\fB                              StackTrace :: erlang:stacktrace(),\fR
\fB                              Options :: format_options().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Format the error reason and stack back-trace caught using \fItry\fR ... \fIcatch\fR in the same style as the shell formats them.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
try
    do_something()
catch
    C:R:Stk ->
        Message = erl_error:format_exception(C, R, Stk),
        io:format(LogFile, "~ts\\n", [Message])
end

.fi

.PP
If \fIerror_info\fR is provided with the exception, \fIformat_exception\fR will use that information to provide additional information about the exception.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
try
  erlang:raise(badarg,[],[{error_info,#{}}])
catch
    C:R:Stk ->
        Message = erl_error:format_exception(C, R, Stk),
        io:format(LogFile, "~ts\\n", [Message])
end

.fi

.PP
See \fIerlang:error/3\fR for details on how to raise an exception with \fIerror_info\fR included.


.RE
.SH CALLBACKS
.LP
.B
\fBformat_error(Reason, StackTrace)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This callback is called when \fIformat_exception/4\fR or similar functionality wants to provide extra information about an error. The \fIModule\fR:\fIFunction\fR called is the one specificed by the \fIerror_info\fR map.

.PP
The function should return a map with additional information about what have caused the exception. The possible keys of the map are:

ArgumentPosition = pos_integer()
.RS 2
The position of the argument that caused the error starting at 1.


.RE

general
.RS 2
An error that is not associated with any argument caused the error.


.RE

reason
.RS 2
If the 
\fIReason\fR should be printed differently than the default way.

.RE

.PP
If the text returned includes new-lines, \fIformat_exception/4\fR will indent the text correctly.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
-module(my_error_module).
-export([atom_to_string/1, format_error/2]).

atom_to_string(Arg) when is_atom(Arg) ->
  atom_to_list(Arg);
atom_to_string(Arg) ->
  erlang:error(badarg,[Arg],
               [{error_info,#{ module => ?MODULE,
                               cause => #{ 1 => "should be an atom" }}}]).

format_error(Reason, [{_M,_F,_As,Info}|_]) ->
  ErrorInfo = proplists:get_value(error_info, Info, #{}),
  ErrorMap = maps:get(cause, ErrorInfo),
  ErrorMap#{ general => "optional general information",
             reason => io_lib:format("~p: ~p",[?MODULE, Reason]) }.

.fi

.IP
.nf
1> c(my_error_module).
{ok,my_error_module}
2> my_error_module:atom_to_string(1).
** exception error: my_error_module: badarg
     in function  my_error_module:atom_to_string/1
        called as my_error_module:atom_to_string(1)
        *** argument 1: should be an atom
        *** optional general information

.fi


.RE
