.TH erl_prim_loader 3 "erts 16.3" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
erl_prim_loader \- The low-level Erlang loader. This module is used to load all Erlang modules into the system. The start script is also fetched with this low-level loader.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIerl_prim_loader\fR knows about the environment and how to fetch modules.

.PP
Command-line flag \fI-loader Loader\fR can be used to choose the method used by \fIerl_prim_loader\fR. Two \fILoader\fR methods are supported by the Erlang runtime system: \fIefile\fR and \fIinet\fR.

.SS "Command-Line Flags"

.PP
The \fIerl_prim_loader\fR module interprets the following command-line flags:

-loader Loader
.RS 2
Specifies the name of the loader used by 
\fIerl_prim_loader\fR. \fILoader\fR can be \fIefile\fR (use the local file system) or \fIinet\fR (load using the \fIboot_server\fR on another Erlang node).
.PP
If flag \fI-loader\fR is omitted, it defaults to \fIefile\fR.


.RE

-loader_debug
.RS 2
Makes the 
\fIefile\fR loader write some debug information, such as the reason for failures, while it handles files.

.RE

-hosts Hosts
.RS 2
Specifies which other Erlang nodes the 
\fIinet\fR loader can use. This flag is mandatory if flag \fI-loader inet\fR is present. On each host, there must be on Erlang node with the \fIerl_boot_server\fR, which handles the load requests. \fIHosts\fR is a list of IP addresses (hostnames are not acceptable).

.RE

-setcookie Cookie
.RS 2
Specifies the cookie of the Erlang runtime system. This flag is mandatory if flag 
\fI-loader inet\fR is present.

.RE

.PP
\fBSee Also\fR

.PP
\fIinit\fR, \fIerl_boot_server\fR

.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBget_file(Filename) -> {ok, Bin, FullName} | error\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      Filename :: atom() | string(),\fR
\fB                      Bin :: binary(),\fR
\fB                      FullName :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIUse of this function is deprecated in favor of \fIread_file/1\fR.\fR

.PP
Fetches a file using the low-level loader. \fIFilename\fR is either an absolute filename or only the name of the file, for example, \fI"lists.beam"\fR. If an internal path is set to the loader, this path is used to find the file. \fIFullName\fR is the complete name of the fetched file. \fIBin\fR is the contents of the file as a binary.

.PP
\fIFilename\fR can also be a file in an archive, for example, \fI$OTPROOT/lib/mnesia-4.4.7.ez/mnesia-4.4.7/ebin/mnesia.beam\fR. For information about archive files, see \fIcode\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBget_path() -> {ok, Path} when Path :: [Dir :: string()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIUse of this function is deprecated in favor of \fIcode:get_path/0\fR.\fR

.PP
Gets the path set in the loader. The path is set by the \fIinit\fR process according to information found in the start script.


.RE
.B
\fBlist_dir(Dir) -> {ok, Filenames} | error\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      Dir :: string(),\fR
\fB                      Filenames :: [Filename :: string()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Lists all the files in a directory.

.PP
Returns \fI{ok, Filenames}\fR if successful, otherwise \fIerror\fR. \fIFilenames\fR is a list of the names of all the files in the directory. The names are not sorted.

.PP
\fIDir\fR can also be a directory in an archive, for example, \fI$OTPROOT/lib/mnesia-4.4.7.ez/mnesia-4.4.7/ebin\fR. For information about archive files, see \fIcode\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBread_file(Filename) -> {ok, Bin} | error\fR
\fB                   when Filename :: string(), Bin :: binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Reads a file using the low-level loader.

.PP
Returns \fI{ok, Bin}\fR if successful, otherwise \fIerror\fR. \fIBin\fR is the contents of the file as a binary.

.PP
\fIFilename\fR can also be a file in an archive, for example, \fI$OTPROOT/lib/mnesia-4.4.7.ez/mnesia-4.4.7/ebin/mnesia.beam\fR. For information about archive files, see \fIcode\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBread_file_info(Filename) -> {ok, FileInfo} | error\fR
\fB                        when\fR
\fB                            Filename :: string(),\fR
\fB                            FileInfo :: file:file_info().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Retrieves information about a file.

.PP
Returns \fI{ok, FileInfo}\fR if successful, otherwise \fIerror\fR. \fIFileInfo\fR is a record \fIfile_info\fR, defined in the Kernel include file \fIfile.hrl\fR. Include the following directive in the module from which the function is called:

.IP
.nf
-include_lib("kernel/include/file.hrl").

.fi

.PP
For more information about the record see \fIfile:read_file_info/2\fR.

.PP
\fIFilename\fR can also be a file in an archive, for example, \fI$OTPROOT/lib/mnesia-4.4.7.ez/mnesia-4.4.7/ebin/mnesia\fR. For information about archive files, see \fIcode\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBread_link_info(Filename) -> {ok, FileInfo} | error\fR
\fB                        when\fR
\fB                            Filename :: string(),\fR
\fB                            FileInfo :: file:file_info().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Works like \fIread_file_info/1\fR except that if \fIFilename\fR is a symbolic link, information about the link is returned in the \fIfile_info\fR record and the \fItype\fR field of the record is set to \fIsymlink\fR.

.PP
If \fIFilename\fR is not a symbolic link, this function returns exactly the same result as \fIread_file_info/1\fR. On platforms that do not support symbolic links, this function is always equivalent to \fIread_file_info/1\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBset_path(Path) -> ok when Path :: [Dir :: string()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the path of the loader if \fIinit\fR interprets a \fIpath\fR command in the start script.


.RE
