.TH et_selector 3 "et 1.7.3" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
et_selector \- Define event transforms and trace patterns

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBevent() :: #event{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBlevel() :: 0..100.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBchange_pattern({Mod :: module(), Pattern}) -> ok\fR
\fB                        when\fR
\fB                            Pattern ::\fR
\fB                                DetailLevel | TracePattern |\fR
\fB                                EmptyTracePattern,\fR
\fB                            DetailLevel :: level(),\fR
\fB                            TracePattern ::\fR
\fB                                [{[term()] | '_' | atom(),\fR
\fB                                  [term()],\fR
\fB                                  [term()]}],\fR
\fB                            EmptyTracePattern :: [].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Activates/deactivates tracing by changing the current trace pattern.

.PP
\fImin\fR detail level deactivates tracing of calls to \fIet:trace_me/4,5\fR

.PP
\fImax\fR detail level activates tracing of all calls to \fIet:trace_me/4,5\fR

.PP
\fIinteger(X)\fR detail level activates tracing of all calls to \fIet:trace_me/4,5\fR whose detail level argument is lesser than \fIX\fR.

.PP
An empty match spec deactivates tracing of calls to \fIet:trace_me/4,5\fR

.PP
Other match specs activates tracing of calls to \fIet:trace_me/4,5\fR accordingly with \fIerlang:trace_pattern/2\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBmake_pattern({Mod :: module(), RawPattern}) ->\fR
\fB                      {Mod :: module(), TracePattern}\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          RawPattern :: level(),\fR
\fB                          TracePattern ::\fR
\fB                              [{[term()] | '_' | atom(),\fR
\fB                                [term()],\fR
\fB                                [term()]}].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Makes a trace pattern suitable to feed change_pattern/1

.PP
Min detail level deactivates tracing of calls to \fIet:trace_me/4,5\fR

.PP
Max detail level activates tracing of all calls to \fIet:trace_me/4,5\fR

.PP
integer(X) detail level activates tracing of all calls to \fIet:trace_me/4,5\fR whose detail level argument is lesser than X.

.PP
See also \fIerlang:trace_pattern/2\fR for more info about its \fImatch_spec()\fR


.RE
.B
\fBparse_event(Mod, ValidTraceData) -> boolean | {true, event()}\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         Mod :: module(),\fR
\fB                         ValidTraceData :: ErlangTraceData | event(),\fR
\fB                         ErlangTraceData ::\fR
\fB                             {trace, pid(), atom(), term()} |\fR
\fB                             {trace, pid(), atom(), term(), term()} |\fR
\fB                             {trace_ts,\fR
\fB                              pid(),\fR
\fB                              atom(),\fR
\fB                              term(),\fR
\fB                              TS :: {integer(), integer(), integer()}} |\fR
\fB                             {trace_ts,\fR
\fB                              pid(),\fR
\fB                              atom(),\fR
\fB                              term(),\fR
\fB                              term(),\fR
\fB                              TS :: {integer(), integer(), integer()}} |\fR
\fB                             {seq_trace, atom(), term()} |\fR
\fB                             {seq_trace,\fR
\fB                              atom(),\fR
\fB                              term(),\fR
\fB                              TS :: {integer(), integer(), integer()}} |\fR
\fB                             {drop, integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Transforms trace data and makes an event record out of it.

.PP
See \fIerlang:trace/3\fR for more info about the semantics of the trace data.

.PP
An event record consists of the following fields:

detail_level
.RS 2
Noise has a high level as opposed to essentials.


.RE

trace_ts
.RS 2
Time when the trace was generated. Same as event_ts if omitted in trace data.


.RE

event_ts
.RS 2
Time when the event record was created.


.RE

from
.RS 2
From actor, such as sender of a message.


.RE

to
.RS 2
To actor, such as receiver of message.


.RE

label
.RS 2
Label intended to provide a brief event summary.


.RE

contents
.RS 2
All nitty gritty details of the event.


.RE

.PP
See \fIet:trace_me/4\fRand \fIet:trace_me/5\fR for details.

.PP
Returns:

{true, Event}
.RS 2
where Event is an #event{} record representing the trace data


.RE

true
.RS 2
means that the trace data already is an event record and that it is valid as it is. No transformation is needed.


.RE

false
.RS 2
means that the trace data is uninteresting and should be dropped


.RE


.RE
