.TH eunit 3 "eunit 2.10.2" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
eunit \- This module is the main EUnit user interface.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBstart() -> term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Starts the EUnit server. Normally, you don't need to call this function; it is started automatically.


.RE
.B
\fBstop() -> term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Stops the EUnit server. Normally, you don't need to call this function.


.RE
.B
\fBtest(Tests :: term(), Options :: [term()]) ->\fR
\fB              ok | error | {error, term()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Runs a set of tests. The format of \fITests\fR is described in the section EUnit test representation of the overview.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
  eunit:test(fred)

.fi

.PP
runs all tests in the module \fIfred\fR and also any tests in the module \fIfred_tests\fR, if that module exists.

.PP
Options:

verbose
.RS 2
Displays more details about the running tests.


.RE

print_depth
.RS 2
Maximum depth to which terms are printed in case of error.


.RE

exact_execution
.RS 2
If this boolean flag is set to 
\fItrue\fR framework will not automatically execute tests found in related module suffixed with "_tests". This behaviour might be unwanted if execution of modules found in a folder is ordered while it contains both source and test modules.

.RE

scale_timeouts
.RS 2
If this numeric value is set, timeouts will get scaled accordingly. It may be useful when running a set of tests on a slower host. Examples: 
\fI{scale_timeouts,10}\fR make the timeouts 10 times longer, while \fI{scale_timeouts,0.1}\fR would shorten them by a factor of 10.

.RE

.PP
Options in the environment variable EUNIT are also included last in the option list, i.e., have lower precedence than those in \fIOptions\fR.

.PP
\fISee also: \fR\fItest/1\fR.


.RE
