.TH gb_sets 3 "stdlib 7.3" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
gb_sets \- Sets represented by general balanced trees.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This module provides ordered sets using Prof. Arne Andersson's General Balanced Trees. Ordered sets can be much more efficient than using ordered lists, for larger sets, but depends on the application.

.PP
The data representing a set as used by this module is to be regarded as opaque by other modules. In abstract terms, the representation is a composite type of existing Erlang terms. See note on data types. Any code assuming knowledge of the format is running on thin ice.

.PP
This module considers two elements as different if and only if they do not compare equal (\fI==\fR).

.SS "Complexity"

.PP
The complexity on set operations is bounded by either \fIO(|S|)\fR or \fIO(|T| \fR log(|S|))*, where S is the largest given set, depending on which is fastest for any particular function call. For operating on sets of almost equal size, this implementation is about 3 times slower than using ordered-list sets directly. For sets of very different sizes, however, this solution can be arbitrarily much faster; in practical cases, often 10-100 times. This implementation is particularly suited for accumulating elements a few at a time, building up a large set (> 100-200 elements), and repeatedly testing for membership in the current set.

.PP
As with normal tree structures, lookup (membership testing), insertion, and deletion have logarithmic complexity.

.SS "Compatibility"

.PP
See the Compatibility Section in the \fIsets\fR module for information about the compatibility of the different implementations of sets in the Standard Library.

.PP
\fBSee Also\fR

.PP
\fIgb_trees\fR, \fIordsets\fR, \fIsets\fR

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBiter() :: iter(_).\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fB-opaque iter(Element) \fR

.br
.RS
.PP
A general balanced set iterator.


.RE
.B
\fBset() :: set(_).\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fB-opaque set(Element) \fR

.br
.RS
.PP
A general balanced set.


.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBadd_element(Element, Set1) -> Set2\fR
\fB                     when Set1 :: set(Element), Set2 :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a new set formed from \fISet1\fR with \fIElement\fR inserted.

.PP
If \fIElement\fR is already an element in \fISet1\fR, nothing is changed.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = gb_sets:new().
2> S1 = gb_sets:add_element(7, S0).
3> gb_sets:to_list(S1).
[7]
4> S2 = gb_sets:add_element(42, S1).
5> S2 = gb_sets:add_element(42, S1).
6> gb_sets:to_list(S2).
[7,42]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBbalance(Set1) -> Set2\fR
\fB                 when Set1 :: set(Element), Set2 :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Rebalances the tree representation of \fISet1\fR.

.PP
This is rarely necessary, but can be motivated when a large number of elements have been deleted from the tree without further insertions. Forcing rebalancing can minimize lookup times, as deletion does not rebalance the tree.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = gb_sets:from_list(lists:seq(1, 100)).
2> Delete = fun(E, Set) -> gb_sets:delete(E, Set) end.
3> S1 = lists:foldl(Delete, S0, lists:seq(1, 50)).
4> gb_sets:size(S1).
50
5> S2 = gb_sets:balance(S1).

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdelete(Element, Set1) -> Set2\fR
\fB                when Set1 :: set(Element), Set2 :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a new set formed from \fISet1\fR with \fIElement\fR removed, assuming \fIElement\fR is present in \fISet1\fR.

.PP
Use \fIdelete_any/2\fR when deleting from a set where \fIElement\fR is potentially missing.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = gb_sets:from_list([a,b]).
2> gb_sets:to_list(gb_sets:delete(b, S)).
[a]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdelete_any(Element, Set1) -> Set2\fR
\fB                    when Set1 :: set(Element), Set2 :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a new set formed from \fISet1\fR with \fIElement\fR removed.

.PP
If \fIElement\fR is not an element in \fISet1\fR, nothing is changed.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = gb_sets:from_list([a,b]).
2> gb_sets:to_list(gb_sets:delete_any(b, S)).
[a]
3> S = gb_sets:delete_any(x, S).

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBempty() -> Set when Set :: set(none()).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a new empty set.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> gb_sets:to_list(gb_sets:empty()).
[]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfilter(Pred, Set1) -> Set2\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    Pred :: fun((Element) -> boolean()),\fR
\fB                    Set1 :: set(Element),\fR
\fB                    Set2 :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Filters elements in \fISet1\fR using predicate function \fIPred\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = gb_sets:from_list([1,2,3,4,5,6,7]).
2> IsEven = fun(N) -> N rem 2 =:= 0 end.
3> Filtered = gb_sets:filter(IsEven, S).
4> gb_sets:to_list(Filtered).
[2,4,6]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfiltermap(Fun, Set1) -> Set2\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       Fun ::\fR
\fB                           fun((Element1) ->\fR
\fB                                   boolean() | {true, Element2}),\fR
\fB                       Set1 :: set(Element1),\fR
\fB                       Set2 :: set(Element1 | Element2).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Calls \fIFun(Elem)\fR for each \fIElem\fR of \fISet1\fR to update or remove elements from \fISet1\fR.

.PP
\fIFun/1\fR must return either a Boolean or a tuple \fI{true, Value}\fR. The function returns the set of elements for which \fIFun\fR returns a new value, with \fItrue\fR being equivalent to \fI{true, Elem}\fR.

.PP
\fIgb_sets:filtermap/2\fR behaves as if it were defined as follows:

.IP
.nf
filtermap(Fun, Set1) ->
    gb_sets:from_list(lists:filtermap(Fun, gb_sets:to_list(Set1))).

.fi

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = gb_sets:from_list([2,4,5,6,8,9]).
2> F = fun(X) ->
           case X rem 2 of
               0 -> {true, X div 2};
               1 -> false
           end
        end.
3> Set = gb_sets:filtermap(F, S).
4> gb_sets:to_list(Set).
[1,2,3,4]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfold(Function, Acc0, Set) -> Acc1\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  Function :: fun((Element, AccIn) -> AccOut),\fR
\fB                  Acc0 :: Acc,\fR
\fB                  Acc1 :: Acc,\fR
\fB                  AccIn :: Acc,\fR
\fB                  AccOut :: Acc,\fR
\fB                  Set :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Folds \fIFunction\fR over every element in \fISet\fR and returns the final value of the accumulator.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = gb_sets:from_list([1,2,3,4]).
2> Plus = fun erlang:'+'/2.
3> gb_sets:fold(Plus, 0, S).
10

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfrom_list(List) -> Set when List :: [Element], Set :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a set of the elements in \fIList\fR, where \fIList\fR can be unordered and contain duplicates.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Unordered = [x,y,a,x,y,b,b,z].
2> gb_sets:to_list(gb_sets:from_list(Unordered)).
[a,b,x,y,z]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfrom_ordset(List) -> Set\fR
\fB                     when List :: [Element], Set :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turns an ordered list without duplicates \fIList\fR into a set.

.PP
See \fIfrom_list/1\fR for a function that accepts unordered lists with duplicates.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Ordset = [1,2,3].
2> gb_sets:to_list(gb_sets:from_ordset(Ordset)).
[1,2,3]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBinsert(Element, Set1) -> Set2\fR
\fB                when Set1 :: set(Element), Set2 :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a new set formed from \fISet1\fR with \fIElement\fR inserted, assuming \fIElement\fR is not already present.

.PP
Use \fIadd/2\fR for inserting into a set where \fIElement\fR is potentially already present.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = gb_sets:new().
2> S1 = gb_sets:insert(7, S0).
3> gb_sets:to_list(S1).
[7]
4> S2 = gb_sets:insert(42, S1).
5> gb_sets:to_list(S2).
[7,42]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBintersection(SetList) -> Set\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          SetList :: [set(Element), ...],\fR
\fB                          Set :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the intersection of the non-empty list of sets.

.PP
The intersection of multiple sets is a new set that contains only the elements that are present in all sets.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = gb_sets:from_list([a,b,c,d]).
2> S1 = gb_sets:from_list([d,e,f]).
3> S2 = gb_sets:from_list([q,r]).
4> Sets = [S0, S1, S2].
5> gb_sets:to_list(gb_sets:intersection([S0, S1, S2])).
[]
6> gb_sets:to_list(gb_sets:intersection([S0, S1])).
[d]
7> gb_sets:intersection([]).
** exception error: no function clause matching gb_sets:intersection([])

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBintersection(Set1, Set2) -> Set3\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          Set1 :: set(Element),\fR
\fB                          Set2 :: set(Element),\fR
\fB                          Set3 :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the intersection of \fISet1\fR and \fISet2\fR.

.PP
The intersection of two sets is a new set that contains only the elements that are present in both sets.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = gb_sets:from_list([a,b,c,d]).
2> S1 = gb_sets:from_list([c,d,e,f]).
3> S2 = gb_sets:from_list([q,r]).
4> gb_sets:to_list(gb_sets:intersection(S0, S1)).
[c,d]
5> gb_sets:to_list(gb_sets:intersection(S1, S2)).
[]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBis_disjoint(Set1, Set2) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                     when Set1 :: set(Element), Set2 :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fItrue\fR if \fISet1\fR and \fISet2\fR are disjoint; otherwise, returns \fIfalse\fR.

.PP
Two sets are disjoint if they have no elements in common.

.PP
This function is equivalent to \fIgb_sets:is_empty(gb_sets:intersection(Set1, Set2))\fR, but faster.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = gb_sets:from_list([a,b,c,d]).
2> S1 = gb_sets:from_list([d,e,f]).
3> S2 = gb_sets:from_list([q,r]).
4> gb_sets:is_disjoint(S0, S1).
false
5> gb_sets:is_disjoint(S1, S2).
true

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBis_empty(Set) -> boolean() when Set :: set().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fItrue\fR if \fISet\fR is an empty set; otherwise, returns \fIfalse\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> gb_sets:is_empty(gb_sets:new()).
true
2> gb_sets:is_empty(gb_sets:singleton(1)).
false

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBis_equal(Set1, Set2) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                  when Set1 :: set(), Set2 :: set().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fItrue\fR if \fISet1\fR and \fISet2\fR are equal, that is, if every element of one set is also a member of the other set; otherwise, returns \fIfalse\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Empty = gb_sets:new().
2> S = gb_sets:from_list([a,b]).
3> gb_sets:is_equal(S, S).
true
4> gb_sets:is_equal(S, Empty).
false

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBis_member(Element, Set) -> boolean() when Set :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fItrue\fR if \fIElement\fR is an element of \fISet\fR; otherwise, returns \fIfalse\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = gb_sets:from_list([a,b,c]).
2> gb_sets:is_member(42, S).
false
3> gb_sets:is_member(b, S).
true

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBis_set(Term) -> boolean() when Term :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fItrue\fR if \fITerm\fR appears to be a set; otherwise, returns \fIfalse\fR.

.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRThis function will return \fItrue\fR for any term that coincides with the representation of a \fIgb_set\fR, while not really being a \fIgb_set\fR, thus it might return false positive results. See also note on data types. Furthermore, since gb_sets are opaque, calling this function on terms that are not gb_sets could result in \fIdialyzer\fR warnings.


.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> gb_sets:is_set(gb_sets:new()).
true
2> gb_sets:is_set(gb_sets:singleton(42)).
true
3> gb_sets:is_set(0).
false

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBis_subset(Set1, Set2) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                   when Set1 :: set(Element), Set2 :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fItrue\fR when every element of \fISet1\fR is also a member of \fISet2\fR; otherwise, returns \fIfalse\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = gb_sets:from_list([a,b,c,d]).
2> S1 = gb_sets:from_list([c,d]).
3> gb_sets:is_subset(S1, S0).
true
4> gb_sets:is_subset(S0, S1).
false
5> gb_sets:is_subset(S0, S0).
true

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBiterator(Set) -> Iter\fR
\fB                  when Set :: set(Element), Iter :: iter(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns an iterator that can be used for traversing the entries of \fISet\fR; see \fInext/1\fR.

.PP
Equivalent to \fIiterator(Set, ordered)\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBiterator(Set, Order) -> Iter\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      Set :: set(Element),\fR
\fB                      Iter :: iter(Element),\fR
\fB                      Order :: ordered | reversed.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns an iterator that can be used for traversing the entries of \fISet\fR in either \fIordered\fR or \fIreversed\fR direction; see \fInext/1\fR.

.PP
The implementation is very efficient; traversing the whole set using \fInext/1\fR is only slightly slower than getting the list of all elements using \fIto_list/1\fR and traversing that. The main advantage of the iterator approach is that it avoids building the complete list of all elements in memory at once.

.IP
.nf
1> S = gb_sets:from_list([1,2,3,4,5]).
2> Iter0 = gb_sets:iterator(S, ordered).
3> element(1, gb_sets:next(Iter0)).
1
4> Iter1 = gb_sets:iterator(S, reversed).
5> element(1, gb_sets:next(Iter1)).
5

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBiterator_from(Element, Set, Order) -> Iter\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           Set :: set(Element),\fR
\fB                           Iter :: iter(Element),\fR
\fB                           Order :: ordered | reversed.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns an iterator over members of \fISet\fR in the given \fIOrder\fR, starting from \fIElement\fR or, if absent, the first member that follows in the iteration order, if any; see \fInext/1\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = gb_sets:from_list([10,20,30,40,50]).
2> Iter1 = gb_sets:iterator_from(17, S, ordered).
3> element(1, gb_sets:next(Iter1)).
20
4> Iter2 = gb_sets:iterator_from(17, S, reversed).
5> element(1, gb_sets:next(Iter2)).
10

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlarger(Element1, Set) -> none | {found, Element2}\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    Element1 :: Element,\fR
\fB                    Element2 :: Element,\fR
\fB                    Set :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fI{found, Element2}\fR, where \fIElement2\fR is the least element strictly greater than \fIElement1\fR.

.PP
Returns \fInone\fR if no such element exists.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = gb_sets:from_list([10,20,30]).
2> gb_sets:larger(1, S).
{found,10}
3> gb_sets:larger(10, S).
{found,20}
4> gb_sets:larger(19, S).
{found,20}
5> gb_sets:larger(30, S).
none

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlargest(Set) -> Element when Set :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the largest element in \fISet\fR.

.PP
Assumes that \fISet\fR is not empty.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = gb_sets:from_list([a,b,c]).
2> gb_sets:largest(S).
c

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBmap(Fun, Set1) -> Set2\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Fun :: fun((Element1) -> Element2),\fR
\fB                 Set1 :: set(Element1),\fR
\fB                 Set2 :: set(Element2).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Maps elements in \fISet1\fR with mapping function \fIFun\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = gb_sets:from_list([1,2,3,4,5,6,7]).
2> F = fun(N) -> N div 2 end.
3> Mapped = gb_sets:map(F, S).
4> gb_sets:to_list(Mapped).
[0,1,2,3]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBnew() -> Set when Set :: set(none()).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a new empty set.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> gb_sets:to_list(gb_sets:new()).
[]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBnext(Iter1) -> {Element, Iter2} | none\fR
\fB              when Iter1 :: iter(Element), Iter2 :: iter(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fI{Element, Iter2}\fR, where \fIElement\fR is the first element referred to by iterator \fIIter1\fR, and \fIIter2\fR is the new iterator to be used for traversing the remaining elements, or the atom \fInone\fR if no elements remain.

.IP
.nf
1> S = gb_sets:from_list([1,2,3,4,5]).
2> Iter0 = gb_sets:iterator(S).
3> {Element0, Iter1} = gb_sets:next(Iter0).
4> Element0.
1
5> {Element1, Iter2} = gb_sets:next(Iter1).
6> Element1.
2

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBsingleton(Element) -> set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a set containing only element \fIElement\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = gb_sets:singleton(42).
2> gb_sets:to_list(S).
[42]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBsize(Set) -> non_neg_integer() when Set :: set().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the number of elements in \fISet\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> gb_sets:size(gb_sets:new()).
0
2> gb_sets:size(gb_sets:from_list([4,5,6])).
3

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBsmaller(Element1, Set) -> none | {found, Element2}\fR
\fB                 when\fR
\fB                     Element1 :: Element,\fR
\fB                     Element2 :: Element,\fR
\fB                     Set :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fI{found, Element2}\fR, where \fIElement2\fR is the greatest element strictly less than \fIElement1\fR.

.PP
Returns \fInone\fR if no such element exists.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = gb_sets:from_list([a,b,c]).
2> gb_sets:smaller(b, S).
{found,a}
3> gb_sets:smaller(z, S).
{found,c}
4> gb_sets:smaller(a, S).
none

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBsmallest(Set) -> Element when Set :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the smallest element in \fISet\fR.

.PP
Assumes that \fISet\fR is not empty.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = gb_sets:from_list([a,b,c]).
2> gb_sets:smallest(S).
a

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBsubtract(Set1, Set2) -> Set3\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      Set1 :: set(Element),\fR
\fB                      Set2 :: set(Element),\fR
\fB                      Set3 :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a new set containing the elements of \fISet1\fR that are not elements in \fISet2\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = gb_sets:from_list([a,b,c,d]).
2> S1 = gb_sets:from_list([c,d,e,f]).
3> gb_sets:to_list(gb_sets:subtract(S0, S1)).
[a,b]
4> gb_sets:to_list(gb_sets:subtract(S1, S0)).
[e,f]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBtake_largest(Set1) -> {Element, Set2}\fR
\fB                      when Set1 :: set(Element), Set2 :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fI{Element, Set2}\fR, where \fIElement\fR is the largest element in \fISet1\fR, and \fISet2\fR is this set with \fIElement\fR deleted.

.PP
Assumes that \fISet1\fR is not empty.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = gb_sets:from_list([a,b,c]).
2> {Largest,S1} = gb_sets:take_largest(S0).
3> Largest.
c
4> gb_sets:to_list(S1).
[a,b]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBtake_smallest(Set1) -> {Element, Set2}\fR
\fB                       when Set1 :: set(Element), Set2 :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fI{Element, Set2}\fR, where \fIElement\fR is the smallest element in \fISet1\fR, and \fISet2\fR is this set with \fIElement\fR deleted.

.PP
Assumes that \fISet1\fR is not empty.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = gb_sets:from_list([a,b,c]).
2> {Smallest,S1} = gb_sets:take_smallest(S0).
3> Smallest.
a
4> gb_sets:to_list(S1).
[b,c]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBto_list(Set) -> List when Set :: set(Element), List :: [Element].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the elements of \fISet\fR as an ordered list.

.IP
.nf
1> gb_sets:to_list(gb_sets:from_list([4,3,5,1,2])).
[1,2,3,4,5]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBunion(SetList) -> Set\fR
\fB               when SetList :: [set(Element)], Set :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the union of a list of sets.

.PP
The union of multiple sets is a new set that contains all the elements from all sets, without duplicates.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = gb_sets:from_list([a,b,c,d]).
2> S1 = gb_sets:from_list([d,e,f]).
3> S2 = gb_sets:from_list([q,r]).
4> Sets = [S0, S1, S2].
5> Union = gb_sets:union(Sets).
6> gb_sets:to_list(Union).
[a,b,c,d,e,f,q,r]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBunion(Set1, Set2) -> Set3\fR
\fB               when\fR
\fB                   Set1 :: set(Element),\fR
\fB                   Set2 :: set(Element),\fR
\fB                   Set3 :: set(Element).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the union of \fISet1\fR and \fISet2\fR.

.PP
The union of two sets is a new set that contains all the elements from both sets, without duplicates.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = gb_sets:from_list([a,b,c,d]).
2> S1 = gb_sets:from_list([c,d,e,f]).
3> Union = gb_sets:union(S0, S1).
4> gb_sets:to_list(Union).
[a,b,c,d,e,f]

.fi


.RE
