.TH gen_udp 3 "kernel 10.6.1" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
gen_udp \- Interface to UDP sockets.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This module provides functions for communicating over UDP protocol sockets.

.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRFunctions that create sockets can take an optional option; \fI{inet_backend, Backend}\fR that, if specified, has to be the first option. This selects the implementation backend towards the platform's socket API. This is a \fItemporary\fR option that will be ignored in a future release. The default is \fIBackend = inet\fR that selects the traditional \fIinet_drv.c\fR driver. The other choice is \fIBackend = socket\fR that selects the new \fIsocket\fR module and its NIF implementation. The system default can be changed when the node is started with the application \fIkernel\fR's configuration variable \fIinet_backend\fR. For \fIgen_udp\fR with \fIinet_backend = socket\fR we have tried to be as "compatible" as possible which has sometimes been impossible. Here is a list of cases when the behaviour of inet-backend \fIinet\fR (default) and \fIsocket\fR are different:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
The option read_packets is currently \fIignored\fR.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
Windows require sockets (domain = \fIinet | inet6\fR) to be bound. \fICurrently\fR all sockets created on Windows with \fIinet_backend = socket\fR will be bound. If the user does not provide an address, gen_udp will try to 'figure out' an address itself.

.RE


.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBip6_membership() ::\fR
\fB          {MultiAddress :: inet:ip6_address(), IfIndex :: integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBip6_multicast_if() :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
IPv6 this multicast interface index (an integer).


.RE
.B
\fBip_membership() ::\fR
\fB          {MultiAddress :: inet:ip4_address(),\fR
\fB           Interface :: inet:ip4_address()} |\fR
\fB          {MultiAddress :: inet:ip4_address(),\fR
\fB           Address :: inet:ip4_address(),\fR
\fB           IfIndex :: integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
IP multicast membership.

.PP
The 3-tuple form \fIisn't\fR supported on all platforms. 'ifindex' defaults to zero (0) on platforms that supports the 3-tuple variant.


.RE
.B
\fBip_multicast_if() :: inet:ip4_address().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBmembership() :: ip_membership() | ip6_membership().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBmulticast_if() :: ip_multicast_if() | ip6_multicast_if().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBopen_option() ::\fR
\fB          {ip, inet:socket_address()} |\fR
\fB          {fd, non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB          {ifaddr,\fR
\fB           socket:sockaddr_in() |\fR
\fB           socket:sockaddr_in6() |\fR
\fB           inet:socket_address()} |\fR
\fB          inet:address_family() |\fR
\fB          {port, inet:port_number()} |\fR
\fB          {netns, file:filename_all()} |\fR
\fB          {bind_to_device, binary()} |\fR
\fB          option().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBoption() ::\fR
\fB          {active, true | false | once | -32768..32767} |\fR
\fB          {add_membership, membership()} |\fR
\fB          {broadcast, boolean()} |\fR
\fB          {buffer, non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB          {debug, boolean()} |\fR
\fB          {deliver, port | term} |\fR
\fB          {dontroute, boolean()} |\fR
\fB          {drop_membership, membership()} |\fR
\fB          {exclusiveaddruse, boolean()} |\fR
\fB          {header, non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB          {high_msgq_watermark, pos_integer()} |\fR
\fB          {low_msgq_watermark, pos_integer()} |\fR
\fB          {mode, list | binary} |\fR
\fB          list | binary |\fR
\fB          {multicast_if, multicast_if()} |\fR
\fB          {multicast_loop, boolean()} |\fR
\fB          {multicast_ttl, non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB          {priority, non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB          {raw,\fR
\fB           Protocol :: non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB           OptionNum :: non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB           ValueBin :: binary()} |\fR
\fB          {read_packets, non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB          {recbuf, non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB          {reuseaddr, boolean()} |\fR
\fB          {reuseport, boolean()} |\fR
\fB          {reuseport_lb, boolean()} |\fR
\fB          {sndbuf, non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB          {tos, non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB          {tclass, non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB          {ttl, non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB          {recvtos, boolean()} |\fR
\fB          {recvtclass, boolean()} |\fR
\fB          {recvttl, boolean()} |\fR
\fB          {ipv6_v6only, boolean()}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBoption_name() ::\fR
\fB          active | broadcast | buffer | debug | deliver | dontroute |\fR
\fB          exclusiveaddruse | header | high_msgq_watermark |\fR
\fB          low_msgq_watermark | mode | multicast_if | multicast_loop |\fR
\fB          multicast_ttl | priority |\fR
\fB          {raw,\fR
\fB           Protocol :: non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB           OptionNum :: non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB           ValueSpec ::\fR
\fB               (ValueSize :: non_neg_integer()) | (ValueBin :: binary())} |\fR
\fB          read_packets | recbuf | reuseaddr | reuseport | reuseport_lb |\fR
\fB          sndbuf | tos | tclass | ttl | recvtos | recvtclass | recvttl |\fR
\fB          pktoptions | ipv6_v6only.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsocket() :: inet:socket().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
A socket as returned by \fIopen/1,2\fR.


.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBclose(Socket) -> ok when Socket :: socket().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Closes a UDP socket.


.RE
.B
\fBconnect(Socket, SockAddr) -> ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                 when\fR
\fB                     Socket :: socket(),\fR
\fB                     SockAddr ::\fR
\fB                         socket:sockaddr_in() | socket:sockaddr_in6(),\fR
\fB                     Reason :: inet:posix().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Connect a UDP socket.

.PP
Connecting a UDP socket only means storing the specified (destination) socket address, as specified by \fISockAddr\fR, so that the system knows where to send data.

.PP
When the socket is "connected" it is not necessary to specify the destination address when sending a datagram. That is; \fIsend/2\fR may be used.

.PP
It also means that the socket will only receive data from the connected address.  Other messages are discarded on arrival by the OS protocol stack.


.RE
.B
\fBconnect(Socket, Address, Port) -> ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                 when\fR
\fB                     Socket :: socket(),\fR
\fB                     Address :: inet:socket_address() | inet:hostname(),\fR
\fB                     Port :: inet:port_number(),\fR
\fB                     Reason :: inet:posix().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Connect a UDP socket.

.PP
See \fIconnect/2\fR.

.PP
With this function the destination is specified with separate \fIAddress\fR and \fIPort\fR arguments where \fIAddress\fR may be an IP address or a host name.


.RE
.B
\fBcontrolling_process(Socket, Pid) -> ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                             when\fR
\fB                                 Socket :: socket(),\fR
\fB                                 Pid :: pid(),\fR
\fB                                 Reason ::\fR
\fB                                     closed | not_owner | badarg |\fR
\fB                                     inet:posix().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change the controlling process (owner) of a socket.

.PP
Assigns a new controlling process \fIPid\fR to \fISocket\fR. The controlling process is the process that the socket sends messages to.  If this function is called from any other process than the current controlling process, \fI{error, not_owner}\fR is returned.

.PP
If the process identified by \fIPid\fR is not an existing local \fIpid/0\fR, \fI{error, badarg}\fR is returned. \fI{error, badarg}\fR may also be returned in some cases when \fISocket\fR is closed during the execution of this function.

.PP
If the socket is in \fIactive mode\fR, this function will transfer any messages from the socket in the mailbox of the caller to the new controlling process.

.PP
If any other process is interacting with the socket during the transfer, it may not work correctly and messages may remain in the caller's mailbox. For instance, changing the sockets active mode during the transfer could cause this.


.RE
.B
\fBopen(Port, Opts) -> {ok, Socket} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  Port :: inet:port_number(),\fR
\fB                  Opts :: [inet:inet_backend() | open_option()],\fR
\fB                  Socket :: socket(),\fR
\fB                  Reason :: system_limit | inet:posix().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Open a UDP socket.

.PP
The created socket is bound to the UDP port number \fIPort\fR. If \fIPort == 0\fR, the underlying OS assigns a free (ephemeral) UDP port; use \fIinet:port/1\fR to retrieve it.

.PP
The process that calls this function becomes the \fISocket\fR's controlling process (socket owner).

.PP
\fBUDP socket options\fR

list
.RS 2
Received 
\fIPacket\fR is delivered as a list.

.RE

binary
.RS 2
Received 
\fIPacket\fR is delivered as a binary.

.RE

{ip, Address}
.RS 2
If the local host has many IP addresses, this option specifies which one to use.


.RE

{ifaddr, Address}
.RS 2
Same as 
\fI{ip, Address}\fR.
.PP
However, if this instead is a \fIsocket:sockaddr_in/0\fR or \fIsocket:sockaddr_in6/0\fR this takes precedence over any value previously set with the \fIip\fR options. If the \fIip\fR option comes \fIafter\fR the \fIifaddr\fR option, it may be used to \fIupdate\fR its corresponding field of the \fIifaddr\fR option (the \fIaddr\fR field).


.RE

{fd, integer() >= 0}
.RS 2
If a socket has somehow been opened without using 
\fIgen_udp\fR, use this option to pass the file descriptor for it. If \fIPort\fR is not set to \fI0\fR and/or \fI{ip, ip_address()}\fR is combined with this option, the \fIfd\fR is bound to the specified interface and port after it is being opened.  If these options are not specified, it is assumed that the \fIfd\fR is already bound appropriately.

.RE

inet6
.RS 2
Sets up the socket for IPv6.


.RE

inet
.RS 2
Sets up the socket for IPv4.


.RE

local
.RS 2
Sets up a Unix Domain Socket. See 
\fIinet:local_address/0\fR

.RE

{udp_module, module()}
.RS 2
Overrides which callback module is used. Defaults to 
\fIinet_udp\fR for IPv4 and \fIinet6_udp\fR for IPv6.

.RE

{multicast_if, Address}
.RS 2
Sets the local device for a multicast socket.


.RE

{multicast_loop, true | false}
.RS 2
When 
\fItrue\fR, sent multicast packets are looped back to the local sockets.

.RE

{multicast_ttl, Integer}
.RS 2
Option 
\fImulticast_ttl\fR changes the time-to-live (TTL) for outgoing multicast datagrams to control the scope of the multicasts.
.PP
Datagrams with a TTL of 1 are not forwarded beyond the local network. Defaults to \fI1\fR.


.RE

{add_membership, {MultiAddress, InterfaceAddress}}
.RS 2
Joins a multicast group.


.RE

{drop_membership, {MultiAddress, InterfaceAddress}}
.RS 2
Leaves a multicast group.


.RE

option/0
.RS 2
See 
\fIinet:setopts/2\fR.

.RE

.PP
UDP packets are sent with this socket using \fIsend(Socket, ...)\fR. When UDP packets arrive to the \fISocket\fR's UDP port, and the socket is in an \fIactive mode\fR, the packets are delivered as messages to the controlling process (socket owner):

.IP
.nf
{udp, Socket, PeerIP, PeerPort, Packet} % Without ancillary data
{udp, Socket, PeerIP, PeerPort, AncData, Packet} % With ancillary data

.fi

.PP
\fIPeerIP\fR and \fIPeerPort\fR are the address from which \fIPacket\fR was sent. \fIPacket\fR is a list of bytes (\fI\fR[\fIbyte/0\fR\fI]\fR if option \fIlist\fR is active and a \fIbinary/0\fR if option \fIbinary\fRis active (they are mutually exclusive).

.PP
The message contains an \fIAncData\fR field only if any of the socket options \fIrecvtos\fR, \fIrecvtclass\fR or \fIrecvttl\fR are active.

.PP
When a socket in \fI{active, N}\fR mode (see \fIinet:setopts/2\fR for details), transitions to passive (\fI{active, false}\fR) mode (\fIN\fR counts down to \fI0\fR), the controlling process is notified by a message on this form:

.IP
.nf
{udp_passive, Socket}

.fi

.PP
If the OS protocol stack reports an error for the socket, the following message is sent to the controlling process:

.IP
.nf
{udp_error, Socket, Reason}

.fi

.PP
\fIReason\fR is mostly a POSIX Error Code.

.PP
If the socket is in \fIpassive mode\fR (not in an \fIactive mode\fR), received data can be retrieved with the\fIrecv/2,3\fR](\fIrecv/2\fR) calls. Note that incoming UDP packets that are longer than the receive buffer option specifies can be truncated without warning.

.PP
The default value for the receive buffer option is \fI{recbuf, 9216}\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBrecv(Socket, Length, Timeout) -> {ok, RecvData} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  Socket :: socket(),\fR
\fB                  Length :: non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB                  Timeout :: timeout(),\fR
\fB                  RecvData ::\fR
\fB                      {Address, Port, Packet} |\fR
\fB                      {Address, Port, AncData, Packet},\fR
\fB                  Address ::\fR
\fB                      inet:ip_address() | inet:returned_non_ip_address(),\fR
\fB                  Port :: inet:port_number(),\fR
\fB                  AncData :: inet:ancillary_data(),\fR
\fB                  Packet :: string() | binary(),\fR
\fB                  Reason :: not_owner | timeout | inet:posix().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Receive a packet from a socket in \fIpassive mode\fR.

.PP
\fITimeout\fR specifies a time-out in milliseconds.

.PP
If any of the socket options \fIrecvtos\fR, \fIrecvtclass\fR or \fIrecvttl\fR are active, the \fIRecvData\fR tuple contains an \fIAncData\fR field, otherwise it doesn't.


.RE
.B
\fBsend(Socket, Packet) -> ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  Socket :: socket(),\fR
\fB                  Packet :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                  Reason :: not_owner | inet:posix().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Send a packet on a connected UDP socket.

.PP
To connect a UDP socket, use \fIconnect/2\fR or \fIconnect/3\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBsend(Socket, Destination, Packet) -> ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  Socket :: socket(),\fR
\fB                  Destination ::\fR
\fB                      {inet:ip_address(), inet:port_number()} |\fR
\fB                      inet:family_address() |\fR
\fB                      socket:sockaddr_in() |\fR
\fB                      socket:sockaddr_in6(),\fR
\fB                  Packet :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                  Reason :: not_owner | inet:posix().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Equivalent to \fIsend(Socket, Destination, [], Packet)\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBsend(Socket, Host, Port, Packet) -> ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  Socket :: socket(),\fR
\fB                  Host :: inet:hostname() | inet:ip_address(),\fR
\fB                  Port :: inet:port_number() | atom(),\fR
\fB                  Packet :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                  Reason :: not_owner | inet:posix();\fR
\fB          (Socket, Destination, AncData, Packet) -> ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  Socket :: socket(),\fR
\fB                  Destination ::\fR
\fB                      {inet:ip_address(), inet:port_number()} |\fR
\fB                      inet:family_address() |\fR
\fB                      socket:sockaddr_in() |\fR
\fB                      socket:sockaddr_in6(),\fR
\fB                  AncData :: inet:ancillary_data(),\fR
\fB                  Packet :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                  Reason :: not_owner | inet:posix();\fR
\fB          (Socket, Destination, PortZero, Packet) ->\fR
\fB              ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  Socket :: socket(),\fR
\fB                  Destination ::\fR
\fB                      {inet:ip_address(), inet:port_number()} |\fR
\fB                      inet:family_address(),\fR
\fB                  PortZero :: inet:port_number(),\fR
\fB                  Packet :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                  Reason :: not_owner | inet:posix().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Send a UDP packet to the specified destination.

.PP
\fBWith arguments \fR\fB\fIHost\fR\fR\fB and \fR\fB\fIPort\fR\fR

.PP
Argument \fIHost\fR can be a hostname or a socket address, and \fIPort\fR can be a port number or a service name atom. These are resolved to a \fIDestination\fR and then this function is equivalent to \fIsend(Socket, Destination, [], Packet)\fR just below.

.PP
\fB With arguments \fR\fB\fIDestination\fR\fR\fB and \fR\fB\fIAncData\fR\fR\fB \fR\fB\fI(since OTP 22.1)\fR\fR

.PP
Sends a packet to the specified \fIDestination\fR with ancillary data \fIAncData\fR.

.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRThe ancillary data \fIAncData\fR contains options that for this single message override the default options for the socket, an operation that may not be supported on all platforms, and if so return \fI{error, einval}\fR. Using more than one of an ancillary data item type may also not be supported. \fIAncData =:= []\fR is always supported.


.PP
\fBWith arguments \fR\fB\fIDestination\fR\fR\fB and \fR\fB\fIPortZero\fR\fR\fB \fR\fB\fI(since OTP 22.1)\fR\fR

.PP
Sends a packet to the specified \fIDestination\fR.  Since \fIDestination\fR is a complete address, \fIPortZero\fR is redundant and has to be \fI0\fR.

.PP
This is a legacy clause mostly for \fIDestination = {local, Binary}\fR where \fIPortZero\fR is superfluous. Equivalent to \fIsend(Socket, Destination, [], Packet)\fR, right above here.


.RE
.B
\fBsend(Socket, Host, Port, AncData, Packet) -> ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  Socket :: socket(),\fR
\fB                  Host ::\fR
\fB                      inet:hostname() |\fR
\fB                      inet:ip_address() |\fR
\fB                      inet:local_address(),\fR
\fB                  Port :: inet:port_number() | atom(),\fR
\fB                  AncData :: inet:ancillary_data(),\fR
\fB                  Packet :: iodata(),\fR
\fB                  Reason :: not_owner | inet:posix().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Send a packet to the specified destination, with ancillary data.

.PP
Equivalent to \fIsend(Socket, Host, Port, Packet)\fR regarding \fIHost\fR and \fIPort\fR and also equivalent to \fIsend(Socket, Destination, AncData, Packet)\fR regarding the ancillary data: \fIAncData\fR.


.RE
