.TH httpd_util 3 "inets 9.6.1" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
httpd_util \- Miscellaneous utility functions to be used when implementing Erlang web server API modules.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This module provides the Erlang web server API module programmer with miscellaneous utility functions.

.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRNote the module is only recommended for using with httpd - for other cases it should be considered as deprecated.


.PP
\fBSee also\fR

.PP
\fIhttpd\fR

.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBconvert_request_date(DateString) -> ErlDate | bad_date\fR
\fB                              when\fR
\fB                                  DateString :: string(),\fR
\fB                                  ErlDate :: calendar:datetime().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIconvert_request_date/1\fR converts \fIDateString\fR to the Erlang date format. \fIDateString\fR must be in one of the three date formats defined in RFC 2616.


.RE
.B
\fBcreate_etag(FileInfo) -> Etag\fR
\fB                     when FileInfo :: file:file_info(), Etag :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIcreate_etag/1\fR calculates the Etag for a file from its size and time for last modification. \fIFileInfo\fR is a record defined in \fIkernel/include/file.hrl\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBday(NthDayOfWeek) -> DayOfWeek\fR
\fB             when NthDayOfWeek :: 1..7, DayOfWeek :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIday/1\fR converts the day of the week (\fINthDayOfWeek\fR) from an integer (1-7) to an abbreviated string, that is:

.PP
1 = "Mon", 2 = "Tue", ..., 7 = "Sat".


.RE
.B
\fBlookup(EtsTable, Key, Undefined) -> Result\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    EtsTable :: ets:table(),\fR
\fB                    Key :: term(),\fR
\fB                    Undefined :: term(),\fR
\fB                    Result :: term() | Undefined.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIlookup\fR extracts \fI{Key, Value}\fR tuples from \fIETSTable\fR and returns the \fIValue\fR associated with \fIKey\fR. If \fIETSTable\fR is of type \fIbag\fR, only the first \fIValue\fR associated with \fIKey\fR is returned. \fIlookup/2\fR returns \fIundefined\fR and \fIlookup/3\fR returns \fIUndefined\fR if no \fIValue\fR is found.


.RE
.B
\fBlookup_mime(ConfigDB, Suffix, Undefined) -> MimeType\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         ConfigDB :: ets:tid(),\fR
\fB                         Suffix :: string(),\fR
\fB                         Undefined :: term(),\fR
\fB                         MimeType :: string() | Undefined.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIlookup_mime\fR returns the MIME type associated with a specific file suffix as specified in the file \fImime.types\fR (located in the config directory).


.RE
.B
\fBlookup_mime_default(ConfigDB, Suffix, Undefined) -> MimeType\fR
\fB                             when\fR
\fB                                 ConfigDB :: ets:tid(),\fR
\fB                                 Suffix :: string(),\fR
\fB                                 Undefined :: term(),\fR
\fB                                 MimeType :: string() | Undefined.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIlookup_mime_default\fR returns the MIME type associated with a specific file suffix as specified in the \fImime.types\fR file (located in the config directory). If no appropriate association is found, the value of \fIDefaultType\fR is returned.


.RE
.B
\fBmessage(StatusCode, PhraseArgs, ConfigDB) -> Message\fR
\fB                 when\fR
\fB                     StatusCode ::\fR
\fB                         301 | 304 | 400 | 401 | 403 | 404 | 408 | 412 |\fR
\fB                         413 | 414 | 500 | 501 | 503 | 504,\fR
\fB                     PhraseArgs :: term(),\fR
\fB                     ConfigDB :: ets:tid(),\fR
\fB                     Message :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fImessage/3\fR returns an informative HTTP 1.1 status string in HTML. Each \fIStatusCode\fR requires a specific \fIPhraseArgs\fR:

301
.RS 2

\fIstring/0\fR: A URL pointing at the new document position.

.RE

400 | 401 | 500
.RS 2

\fInone\fR (no \fIPhraseArgs\fR).

.RE

403 | 404
.RS 2

\fIstring/0\fR: A \fIRequest-URI\fR as described in RFC 2616.

.RE

501
.RS 2

\fI{Method, RequestURI, HTTPVersion}\fR: The HTTP \fIMethod\fR, \fIRequest-URI\fR, and \fIHTTP-Version\fR as defined in RFC 2616.

.RE

504
.RS 2

\fIstring/0\fR: A string describing why the service was unavailable.

.RE


.RE
.B
\fBmonth(NthMonth) -> Month when NthMonth :: 1..12, Month :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fImonth/1\fR converts the month \fINthMonth\fR as an integer (1-12) to an abbreviated string, that is:

.PP
1 = "Jan", 2 = "Feb", ..., 12 = "Dec".


.RE
.B
\fBmulti_lookup(EtsTable, Key) -> Result\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          EtsTable :: ets:tid(),\fR
\fB                          Key :: term(),\fR
\fB                          Result :: list() | [term()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fImulti_lookup\fR extracts all \fI{Key, Value}\fR tuples from an \fIETSTable\fR and returns \fIall\fR \fIValues\fR associated with \fIKey\fR in a list.


.RE
.B
\fBreason_phrase(StatusCode) -> Description\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           StatusCode ::\fR
\fB                               100 | 101 | 102 | 200 | 201 | 202 | 203 |\fR
\fB                               204 | 205 | 206 | 207 | 226 | 300 | 301 |\fR
\fB                               302 | 303 | 304 | 305 | 306 | 307 | 308 |\fR
\fB                               400 | 401 | 402 | 403 | 404 | 405 | 406 |\fR
\fB                               407 | 408 | 409 | 410 | 411 | 412 | 413 |\fR
\fB                               414 | 415 | 416 | 417 | 422 | 423 | 424 |\fR
\fB                               425 | 426 | 500 | 501 | 502 | 503 | 504 |\fR
\fB                               505 | 507,\fR
\fB                           Description :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIreason_phrase\fR returns \fIDescription\fR of an HTTP 1.1 \fIStatusCode\fR, for example, 200 is "OK" and 201 is "Created". For more information, see RFC 2616.


.RE
.B
\fBrfc1123_date(LocalTime) -> RFC1123Date\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          LocalTime :: calendar:datetime() | undefined,\fR
\fB                          RFC1123Date :: string() | undefined.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIrfc1123_date/0\fR returns the current date in RFC 1123 format. \fIrfc_date/1\fR converts the date in the Erlang format to the RFC 1123 date format.


.RE
.B
\fBsplit(String, RegExp, N) -> SplitRes\fR
\fB               when\fR
\fB                   String :: string(),\fR
\fB                   RegExp :: string(),\fR
\fB                   N :: non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB                   SplitRes :: {ok, FieldList} | {error, term()},\fR
\fB                   FieldList :: [string()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIsplit/3\fR splits \fIString\fR in \fIN\fR chunks using \fIRegExp\fR. \fIsplit/3\fR is equivalent to \fIre:split/3\fR with the exception that \fIN\fR defines the maximum number of fields in \fIFieldList\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBsplit_path(URIString) -> {Path, QueryStringOrPathInfo}\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        URIString :: string(),\fR
\fB                        Path :: string(),\fR
\fB                        QueryStringOrPathInfo :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIsplit_path/1\fR splits \fIRequestLine\fR in a file reference (\fIPath\fR), and a \fIQueryString\fR or a \fIPathInfo\fR string as specified in RFC 2616. A \fIQueryString\fR is isolated from \fIPath\fR with a question mark (\fI?\fR) and \fIPathInfo\fR with a slash (/). In the case of a \fIQueryString\fR, everything before \fI?\fR is a \fIPath\fR and everything after \fI?\fR is a \fIQueryString\fR. In the case of a \fIPathInfo\fR, \fIRequestLine\fR is scanned from left-to-right on the hunt for longest possible \fIPath\fR being a file or a directory. Everything after the longest possible \fIPath\fR, isolated with a \fI/\fR, is regarded as \fIPathInfo\fR


.RE
.B
\fBsplit_script_path(URIString) -> Split\fR
\fB                           when\fR
\fB                               URIString :: string(),\fR
\fB                               Split ::\fR
\fB                                   not_a_script |\fR
\fB                                   {Path, {PathInfo, QueryString}} |\fR
\fB                                   {Path, []},\fR
\fB                               Path :: string(),\fR
\fB                               QueryString :: string(),\fR
\fB                               PathInfo :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIsplit_script_path/1\fR is equivalent to \fIsplit_path/1\fR with one exception. If the longest possible path is not a regular, accessible, and executable file, then \fInot_a_script\fR is returned.


.RE
