.TH io_ansi 3 "stdlib 7.3" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
io_ansi \- Controlling the terminal using virtual terminal sequences (aka [ANSI escape codes]).

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This module provides an interface to emit and parse virtual terminal sequences (VTS), also known as [ANSI escape codes]. VTS can be used to:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
change the style of text or background in the terminal by adding color or emphasis.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
delete printed characters or lines.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
move, hide or show the cursor

.RE

.PP
and more things. As different terminals are interpret VTSs slightly differently, \fIio_ansi\fR uses the local [terminfo] database together with predefined sequences to emit the correct sequence for the terminal that is currently used. To fetch values directly from the [terminfo] database you can use \fItput/2\fR, \fItigetnum/1\fR and \fItigetflag/1\fR.

.PP
\fIio_ansi\fR provides two interfaces to emit sequences. You can either call the function representing the sequence you want to emit, for example \fIio_ansi:blue()\fR and it will return the sequence representing blue.

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:blue().
<<"\\e[34m">>

.fi

.PP
This will use the [terminfo] database locally where the call is made, so it may not be correct if used across nodes.

.PP
You can also use the \fIio_ansi:format/1,2,3\fR functions which works just as \fIio_lib:bformat/3\fR, except that it also accepts atoms and tuples that represent VTSs. For example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:format([blue,"~p"], [red]).
<<"\\e[34mred\\e(B\\e[m">>

.fi

.PP
\fIio_ansi:format/3\fR will automatically reset the terminal to its original state and strip any VTSs that are not supported by the terminal. It can also be disabled through an option. For example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:format([blue,"~p"], [red], [{enabled, false}]).
<<"red">>

.fi

.PP
Finally there is \fIio_ansi:fwrite/1,2,3,4\fR which does not return the string to be printed, but instead sends it to the \fIio:device/0\fR that should handle it. \fIio_ansi:fwrite/4\fR works across nodes and will use the [terminfo] database where the data is outputted to decide what to emit.

.PP
https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/terminfo.5.html https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBbackground_color() ::\fR
\fB          black_background | blue_background | cyan_background |\fR
\fB          green_background | magenta_background | red_background |\fR
\fB          white_background | yellow_background | default_background |\fR
\fB          light_black_background | light_blue_background |\fR
\fB          light_cyan_background | light_green_background |\fR
\fB          light_magenta_background | light_red_background |\fR
\fB          light_white_background | light_yellow_background |\fR
\fB          {background, 0..255} |\fR
\fB          {background, R :: 0..255, G :: 0..255, B :: 0..255}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Virtual terminal sequences that control the background color.


.RE
.B
\fBcolor() ::\fR
\fB          foreground_color() |\fR
\fB          background_color() |\fR
\fB          underline_color() |\fR
\fB          {modify_color,\fR
\fB           Index :: 0..255,\fR
\fB           R :: 0..255,\fR
\fB           G :: 0..255,\fR
\fB           B :: 0..255}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Virtual terminal sequences that control color.


.RE
.B
\fBcolor_atom() ::\fR
\fB          black | blue | cyan | green | magenta | red | white | yellow |\fR
\fB          light_black | light_blue | light_cyan | light_green |\fR
\fB          light_magenta | light_red | light_white | light_yellow.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBcursor() ::\fR
\fB          {cursor,\fR
\fB           Line :: non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB           Column :: non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB          {cursor_move,\fR
\fB           DeltaLine :: integer(),\fR
\fB           DeltaColumn :: integer()} |\fR
\fB          cursor_down | cursor_up | cursor_backward | cursor_forward |\fR
\fB          {cursor_down | cursor_backward | cursor_forward | cursor_up,\fR
\fB           N :: non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB          cursor_home | reverse_index | cursor_save | cursor_restore |\fR
\fB          cursor_show | cursor_hide | cursor_next_line |\fR
\fB          cursor_previous_line | cursor_horizontal_absolute |\fR
\fB          cursor_vertical_absolute | cursor_horizontal_vertical |\fR
\fB          cursor_report_position.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Virtual terminal sequences that controls the cursor.


.RE
.B
\fBforeground_color() ::\fR
\fB          color_atom() |\fR
\fB          {color, 0..255} |\fR
\fB          {color, R :: 0..255, G :: 0..255, B :: 0..255} |\fR
\fB          default_color.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Virtual terminal sequences that control the foreground (aka text) color.


.RE
.B
\fBformat() :: [string() | vts()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The format string that can be passed to \fIformat/3\fR and \fIfwrite/4\fR


.RE
.B
\fBhyperlink() ::\fR
\fB          {hyperlink,\fR
\fB           URL :: uri_string:uri_string(),\fR
\fB           Text :: unicode:chardata()} |\fR
\fB          {hyperlink,\fR
\fB           URL :: uri_string:uri_string(),\fR
\fB           hyperlink_params(),\fR
\fB           Text :: unicode:chardata()} |\fR
\fB          {hyperlink_start, URL :: uri_string:uri_string()} |\fR
\fB          {hyperlink_start,\fR
\fB           URL :: uri_string:uri_string(),\fR
\fB           hyperlink_params()} |\fR
\fB          hyperlink_reset.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Virtual terminal sequences that control whether emitted text shall be a hyper link or not.


.RE
.B
\fBhyperlink_params() ::\fR
\fB          [{Key :: unicode:chardata(), Value :: unicode:chardata()}].\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBinput() ::\fR
\fB          keypad_transmit_mode | keypad_transmit_mode_off |\fR
\fB          kcursor_down | kcursor_up | kcursor_backward |\fR
\fB          kcursor_forward | kcursor_home | kcursor_end.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Virtual terminal sequences for cursor input.


.RE
.B
\fBoption() ::\fR
\fB          {reset, boolean()} |\fR
\fB          {enabled, boolean()} |\fR
\fB          {color, boolean()} |\fR
\fB          io_lib:format_options().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBoptions() :: [option()].\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBstyle() ::\fR
\fB          bold | bold_off | blink | blink_off | dim | dim_off |\fR
\fB          invisible | invisible_off | italic | italic_off | inverse |\fR
\fB          inverse_off | overline | overline_off | strikethrough |\fR
\fB          strikethrough_off |\fR
\fB          underline_style().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Virtual terminal sequences that control text style.


.RE
.B
\fBtab() :: tab | tab_backward | tab_set | tab_clear | tab_clear_all.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Virtual terminal sequences that works with tabs.


.RE
.B
\fBtext() ::\fR
\fB          text_formatting() |\fR
\fB          text_modification() |\fR
\fB          alternate_character_set_mode |\fR
\fB          alternate_character_set_mode_off.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Virtual terminal sequences that works on text.


.RE
.B
\fBtext_formatting() :: color() | style() | hyperlink().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Virtual terminal sequences that control text formatting.


.RE
.B
\fBtext_modification() ::\fR
\fB          clear | erase_display | insert_character | delete_character |\fR
\fB          erase_character | insert_line | delete_line | erase_line.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Virtual terminal sequences that can erase or overwrite text.


.RE
.B
\fBunderline_color() ::\fR
\fB          black_underline | blue_underline | cyan_underline |\fR
\fB          green_underline | magenta_underline | red_underline |\fR
\fB          white_underline | yellow_underline | default_underline |\fR
\fB          light_black_underline | light_blue_underline |\fR
\fB          light_cyan_underline | light_green_underline |\fR
\fB          light_magenta_underline | light_red_underline |\fR
\fB          light_white_underline | light_yellow_underline |\fR
\fB          {underline_color, 0..255} |\fR
\fB          {underline_color, R :: 0..255, G :: 0..255, B :: 0..255}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Virtual terminal sequences that control underline color.


.RE
.B
\fBunderline_style() ::\fR
\fB          underline | underline_off | double_underline |\fR
\fB          curly_underline | dotted_underline | dashed_underline.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Virtual terminal sequences that control underline style.


.RE
.B
\fBvts() ::\fR
\fB          text() |\fR
\fB          cursor() |\fR
\fB          window() |\fR
\fB          tab() |\fR
\fB          input() |\fR
\fB          reset | device_report_attributes.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Virtual terminal sequences.


.RE
.B
\fBwindow() ::\fR
\fB          alternate_screen | alternate_screen_off | scroll_forward |\fR
\fB          scroll_backward | scroll_change_region.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Virtual terminal sequences that controls the screen.


.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBalternate_character_set_mode() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Enable the alternate characters set mode

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:alternate_character_set_mode().
<<"\\e(0">>
2> io_ansi:fwrite(["%%", alternate_character_set_mode, " tqqu\\n"]).
%% ├──┤
ok

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBalternate_character_set_mode_off() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Disable the alternate characters set mode

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:alternate_character_set_mode_off().
<<"\\e(B">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBalternate_screen() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Activate the alternate screen buffer.

.PP
The alternate screen buffer is a separate screen buffer that full-screen terminal applications (like \fIvim\fR, \fIless\fR, \fIhtop\fR, or \fIman\fR) use to display their content. When activated, the current screen content and cursor position are saved. When deactivated with \fIalternate_screen_off/0\fR, the original screen content is restored, making it appear as if the full-screen application was never there.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:alternate_screen().
<<"\\e[?1049h\\e[22;0;0t">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBalternate_screen_off() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Deactivate the alternate screen.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:alternate_screen_off().
<<"\\e[?1049l\\e[23;0;0t">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBbackground(Index :: 0..255 | 0..87 | color_atom()) ->\fR
\fB                    unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to index color. \fIIndex\fR 0-15 are equivilant to the named colors in \fIbackground_color/0\fR in the order that they are listed.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:background(2).
<<"\\e[42m">>
2> io_ansi:background(80).
<<"\\e[48;5;80m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBbackground(0..255, 0..255, 0..255) -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to RGB color.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:background(255, 255, 0).
<<"\\e[48;2;255;255;0m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBblack() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to black.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:black().
<<"\\e[30m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBblack_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to black.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:black_background().
<<"\\e[40m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBblack_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change underline color to black. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:black_underline().
<<"\\e[58;5;0m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBblink() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn on blink text style. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:blink().
<<"\\e[5m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBblink_off() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn off blink text style.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:blink_off().
<<"\\e[25m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBblue() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to blue.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:blue().
<<"\\e[34m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBblue_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to blue.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:blue_background().
<<"\\e[44m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBblue_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change underline color to blue. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:blue_underline().
<<"\\e[58;5;4m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBbold() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn on bold text style.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:bold().
<<"\\e[1m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBbold_off() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn off bold text style.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:bold_off().
<<"\\e[22m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBclear() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Clear screen and set cursor to home.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:clear().
<<"\\e[H\\e[2J">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcolor(Index :: 0..255 | 0..87 | color_atom()) ->\fR
\fB               unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to index color. \fIIndex\fR 0-15 are equivalent to the named colors in \fIforeground_color/0\fR in the order that they are listed.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:color(5).
<<"\\e[35m">>
2> io_ansi:color(80).
<<"\\e[38;5;80m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcolor(0..255, 0..255, 0..255) -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to RGB color.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:color(255, 0, 0).
<<"\\e[38;2;255;0;0m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcolor_name_to_index(Color :: color_atom()) -> 0..15.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Convert a color atom to its corresponding index (0-15).

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:color_name_to_index(red).
1

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcurly_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn on curly underline text style. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:curly_underline().
<<"\\e[4:3m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor(Line :: integer(), Column :: integer()) ->\fR
\fB                unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor to the given position. Position 0,0 is at the top left of the terminal.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor(5, 10).
<<"\\e[6;11H">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_backward() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor backward \fIN\fR characters.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_backward().
<<"\\b">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_backward(N :: integer()) -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor backward \fIN\fR characters.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_backward(42).
<<"\\e[42D">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_down() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor down one line.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_down().
<<"\\n">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_down(N :: integer()) -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor down \fIN\fR lines.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_down(42).
<<"\\e[42B">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_forward() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor forward one character.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_forward().
<<"\\e[C">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_forward(N :: integer()) -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor forward \fIN\fR characters.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_forward().
<<"\\e[C">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_get_position() ->\fR
\fB                             {Row :: non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB                              Column :: non_neg_integer()} |\fR
\fB                             {error, string()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get the current cursor position as {Row, Column}. Example:

.IP
.nf
## Enter noshell-raw mode and request cursor location and then print
## the reply to stdout.
$ erl -noshell -eval 'shell:start_interactive({noshell,raw}),
    {Row,Col} = io_ansi:cursor_get_position(),
    io:format("~p",[{Row,Col}])' -s init stop
{58,1}

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_hide() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Hide the cursor.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_hide().
<<"\\e[?25l">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_home() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor to the start of the current line.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_home().
<<"\\e[H">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_horizontal_absolute(X :: integer()) -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor to column \fIX\fR.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_horizontal_absolute(10).
<<"\\e[11G">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_horizontal_vertical(X :: integer(), Y :: integer()) ->\fR
\fB                                    unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor to line \fIX\fR and column \fIY\fR. Position 1,1 is at the top left of the terminal.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_horizontal_vertical(10, 20).
<<"\\e[10;20f">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_move(DeltaLine :: integer(), DeltaColumn :: integer()) ->\fR
\fB                     unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor relative to its current position.

.PP
Positive \fIDeltaLine\fR moves down, negative moves up. Positive \fIDeltaColumn\fR moves right (forward), negative moves left (backward).

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_move(-5, 0).
<<"\\e[5A">>
2> io_ansi:cursor_move(0, 10).
<<"\\e[10C">>
3> io_ansi:cursor_move(3, -2).
<<"\\e[3B\\e[2D">>
4> io_ansi:cursor_move(0, 0).
<<>>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_next_line() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor down one line and then returns it to home.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_next_line().
<<"\\eE">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_previous_line() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor up one line and then returns it to home.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_previous_line().
<<"\\e[F">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_report_position() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Instruct the terminal to report the current cursor position.

.PP
Examples:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_report_position().
~"\\e[6n"

.fi

.IP
.nf
## Enter noshell-raw mode and request cursor location and then print
## the reply to stdout.
$ erl -noshell -eval 'shell:start_interactive({noshell,raw}),
    io_ansi:fwrite([cursor_report_position]),
    io:format("~p",[io:get_chars("",20)])' -s init stop
"\\e[58;1R"

.fi

.PP
The reported cursor position in the example is row 58 and column 1 both are 1 index based.


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_restore() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Restore a saved cursor position.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_restore().
<<"\\e8">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_save() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Save the current cursor position.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_save().
<<"\\e7">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_show() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Show the cursor.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_show().
<<"\\e[?12;25h">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_up() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor up one line.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_up().
<<"\\e[A">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_up(N :: integer()) -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor up \fIN\fR lines.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_up(42).
<<"\\e[42A">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcursor_vertical_absolute(X :: integer()) -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor to line \fIX\fR.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cursor_vertical_absolute(20).
<<"\\e[21d">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcyan() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to cyan.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cyan().
<<"\\e[36m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcyan_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to cyan.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cyan_background().
<<"\\e[46m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcyan_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change underline color to cyan. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:cyan_underline().
<<"\\e[58;5;6m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdashed_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn on dashed underline text style. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:dashed_underline().
<<"\\e[4:5m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdefault_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to the default color.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:default_background().
<<"\\e[49m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdefault_color() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to the default color.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:default_color().
<<"\\e[39m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdefault_underline_color() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Reset underline color to the default.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:default_underline_color().
<<"\\e[59m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdelete_character() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Delete 1 character at cursor.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:delete_character().
<<"\\e[P">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdelete_character(Chars :: integer()) -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Delete \fIChars\fR characters at cursor by shifting the text \fIChars\fR characters to the left.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:delete_character(2).
<<"\\e[2P">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdelete_line() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Delete 1 line at cursor.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:delete_line().
<<"\\e[M">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdelete_line(Lines :: integer()) -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Delete \fILines\fR lines at cursor.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:delete_line(3).
<<"\\e[3M">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdevice_report_attributes() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Tell the terminal emulator to report its device attributes.

.PP
Examples:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:device_report_attributes().
<<"\\e[0c">>

.fi

.IP
.nf
## Enter noshell-raw mode and request device attributes and then print
## the reply to stdout.
$ erl -noshell -eval 'shell:start_interactive({noshell,raw}),
     io_ansi:fwrite([device_report_attributes]),
     io:format("~p",[io:get_chars("",20)])' -s init stop
"\\e[?65;1;9c"

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdim() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn on dim text style. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:dim().
<<"\\e[2m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdim_off() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn off dim text style.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:dim_off().
<<"\\e[22m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdotted_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn on dotted underline text style. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:dotted_underline().
<<"\\e[4:4m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdouble_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn on double underline text style. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:double_underline().
<<"\\e[4:2m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBenabled() -> boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Check if \fIio:user/0\fR can interpret ANSI escape sequences.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:enabled().
true

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBenabled(io:device()) -> boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Check if \fIDevice\fR can interpret ANSI escape sequences.

.PP
This is done by checking if \fIDevice\fR represents a terminal and if the \fITERM\fR environment variable is set to a terminal type that supports virtual terminal sequences.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:enabled(standard_error).
true
2> {ok, File} = file:open("tmp",[write]), io_ansi:enabled(File).
false

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBerase_character(Chars :: integer()) -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Erase \fIChars\fR characters at cursor by making \fIChars\fR characters before the cursor blank.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:erase_character(4).
<<"\\e[4X">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBerase_display() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Clear screen after cursor.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:erase_display().
<<"\\e[J">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBerase_line() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Erase line at cursor.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:erase_line().
<<"\\e[K">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBformat(format(), Data :: [term()], options()) ->\fR
\fB                unicode:unicode_binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a character list that represents \fIData\fR formatted in accordance with \fIFormat\fR.

.PP
This function works just as \fIio_lib:bformat/2\fR, except that it also allows atoms and tuples represeting virtual terminal sequences as part of the \fIFormat\fR string.

.PP
Calling \fIformat/3\fR will always emit a \fIreset/0\fR VTS at the end of the returned string. To not emit this, set the \fIreset\fR option to \fIfalse\fR.

.PP
To force enabling or disabling of emitting VTSs set the \fIenabled\fR option to \fItrue\fR or \fIfalse\fR. By default the emitting of VTSs is enabled if \fIenabled/0\fR returns \fItrue\fR and disabled otherwise.

.PP
To disable emitting of color VTSs but still emit other VTSs, set the \fIcolor\fR option to \fIfalse\fR. The default color option is \fItrue\fR unless the \fINO_COLOR\fR environment variable is set to a non-empty value, in which case the default is \fIfalse\fR.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:format([blue, underline, "Hello world"]).
~"\\e[34m\\e[4mHello world\\e(B\\e[m"
2> io_ansi:format([blue, underline, "Hello ~p"],[world]).
~"\\e[34m\\e[4mHello world\\e(B\\e[m"
3> io_ansi:format([blue, underline, "Hello ~p"],[world],[{reset,false}]).
~"\\e[34m\\e[4mHello world"
4> io_ansi:format([blue, underline, "Hello ~p"],[world],[{enabled,false}]).
~"Hello world"
5> io_ansi:format([blue, underline, "Hello ~p"],[world],[{color,false}]).
~"\\e[4mHello world\\e(B\\e[m"
6> io_ansi:format([invalid_code, "Hello world"]).
** exception error: {invalid_code,invalid_code}
     in function  io_ansi:format_internal/3

.fi

.PP
For a detailed description of the available formatting options, see \fIio:fwrite/3\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBfwrite(IODevice :: io:device(),\fR
\fB             Format :: format(),\fR
\fB             [term()],\fR
\fB             options()) ->\fR
\fB                ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Writes the items in \fIData\fR on the \fIIoDevice\fR in accordance with \fIFormat\fR.

.PP
This function works just as \fIio:fwrite/2\fR, except that it also allows atoms and tuples representing virtual terminal sequences (VTS) as part of the \fIFormat\fR string.

.PP
See \fIformat/3\fR for details on how the different \fIOptions\fR can be used.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:fwrite([blue, "%% Hello world\\n"]).
%% Hello world
ok
2> io_ansi:fwrite([underline, "%% Hello ~p\\n"], [world]).
%% Hello world
ok
3> io_ansi:fwrite([invalid_code, "%% Hello ~p\\n"], [world]).
** exception error: {error,{put_ansi,unicode,invalid_code}}
     in function  io_ansi:fwrite/4
        called as io_ansi:fwrite(standard_io,[invalid_code,"%% Hello ~p\\n"],[world],[])

.fi

.PP
The decision what each VTS should be converted to is done by the destination I/O device. This means that if the I/O device is on a remote node, the terminfo database loaded into that remote node will be used.

.PP
All VTSs are stripped if the target I/O device does not support handling VTSs, either because it is not implemented by the device (for example if the device is a \fIfile:io_server/0\fR) or if the device does not support a certain VTS. If you want to force usage of VTSs you can pass \fI{enabled, true}\fR and that will use the local defintions to translate.


.RE
.B
\fBgreen() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to green.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:green().
<<"\\e[32m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBgreen_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to green.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:green_background().
<<"\\e[42m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBgreen_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change underline color to green. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:green_underline().
<<"\\e[58;5;2m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBhyperlink_reset() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Stop emitting a hyperlink.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:hyperlink_reset().
<<"\\e]8;;\\e\\\\">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBhyperlink_start(uri_string:uri_string(),\fR
\fB                      [{Key :: unicode:chardata(),\fR
\fB                        Value :: unicode:chardata()}]) ->\fR
\fB                         unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Start a hyperlink pointing to the given \fIURL\fR using \fIParams\fR.

.PP
The hyperlink can be any type of URL, but typically it would be a file or http URL.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:hyperlink_start("https://erlang.org").
<<"\\e]8;https://erlang.org;\\e\\\\">>
2> io_ansi:format([{hyperlink_start, "file://tmp/debug.log"},"debug log",hyperlink_reset]).
~"\\e]8;file://tmp/debug.log;\\e\\\\debug log\\e]8;;\\e\\\\\\e(B\\e[m"

.fi

.PP
See Hyperlinks (a.k.a. HTML-like anchors) in terminal emulators for more details on limitations and usage of terminal hyperlinks.


.RE
.B
\fBinsert_character(Chars :: integer()) -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Insert \fIChars\fR at cursor.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:insert_character(3).
<<"\\e[3@">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBinsert_line() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Insert 1 line at cursor.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:insert_line().
<<"\\e[L">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBinsert_line(Lines :: integer()) -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Insert \fILines\fR lines at cursor.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:insert_line(2).
<<"\\e[2L">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBinverse() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn on inverse text style.

.PP
Inverse is also called reverse video or standout mode.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:inverse().
<<"\\e[7m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBinverse_off() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn off inverse text style.

.PP
Inverse is also called reverse video or standout mode.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:inverse_off().
<<"\\e[27m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBinvisible() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn on invisible text style. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:invisible().
<<"\\e[8m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBinvisible_off() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn off invisible text style.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:invisible_off().
<<"\\e[28m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBitalic() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn on italic text style. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:italic().
<<"\\e[3m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBitalic_off() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn off italic text style.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:italic_off().
<<"\\e[23m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBkeypad_transmit_mode() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Enable keypad transmit mode.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:keypad_transmit_mode().
<<"\\e[?1h\\e=">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBkeypad_transmit_mode_off() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Disable keypad transmit mode.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:keypad_transmit_mode_off().
<<"\\e[?1l\\e>">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_black() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to light black.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_black().
<<"\\e[90m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_black_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to light black.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_black_background().
<<"\\e[100m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_black_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change underline color to light black. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_black_underline().
<<"\\e[58;5;8m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_blue() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to light blue.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_blue().
<<"\\e[94m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_blue_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to light blue.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_blue_background().
<<"\\e[104m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_blue_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change underline color to light blue. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_blue_underline().
<<"\\e[58;5;12m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_cyan() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to light cyan.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_cyan().
<<"\\e[96m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_cyan_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to light cyan.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_cyan_background().
<<"\\e[106m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_cyan_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change underline color to light cyan. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_cyan_underline().
<<"\\e[58;5;14m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_green() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to light green.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_green().
<<"\\e[92m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_green_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to light green.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_green_background().
<<"\\e[102m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_green_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change underline color to light green. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_green_underline().
<<"\\e[58;5;10m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_magenta() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to light magenta.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_magenta().
<<"\\e[95m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_magenta_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to light magenta.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_magenta_background().
<<"\\e[105m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_magenta_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change underline color to light magenta. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_magenta_underline().
<<"\\e[58;5;13m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_red() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to light red.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_red().
<<"\\e[91m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_red_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to light red.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_red_background().
<<"\\e[101m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_red_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change underline color to light red. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_red_underline().
<<"\\e[58;5;9m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_white() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to light white.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_white().
<<"\\e[97m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_white_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to light white.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_white_background().
<<"\\e[107m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_white_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change underline color to light white. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_white_underline().
<<"\\e[58;5;15m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_yellow() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to light yellow.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_yellow().
<<"\\e[93m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_yellow_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to light yellow.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_yellow_background().
<<"\\e[103m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlight_yellow_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change underline color to light yellow. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:light_yellow_underline().
<<"\\e[58;5;11m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBmagenta() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to magenta.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:magenta().
<<"\\e[35m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBmagenta_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to magenta.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:magenta_background().
<<"\\e[45m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBmagenta_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change underline color to magenta. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:magenta_underline().
<<"\\e[58;5;5m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBmodify_color(Index :: 0..255,\fR
\fB                   R :: 0..255,\fR
\fB                   G :: 0..255,\fR
\fB                   B :: 0..255) ->\fR
\fB                      unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Modify the color referenced by \fIIndex\fR to be RGB.

.PP
Calling this function for \fIIndex\fR 0-15 will change the color of the named colors in \fIforeground_color/0\fR and \fIbackground_color/0\fR.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:modify_color(1, 255, 100, 0).
<<"\\e]4;1;rgb:41/19/00\\e\\\\">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBoverline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn on overline text style.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:overline().
<<"\\e[53m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBoverline_off() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn off overline text style.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:overline_off().
<<"\\e[55m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBred() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to red.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:red().
<<"\\e[31m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBred_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to red.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:red_background().
<<"\\e[41m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBred_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change underline color to red. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:red_underline().
<<"\\e[58;5;1m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBreset() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Reset virtual terminal sequences to their original state.

.PP
This only resets the things supported by the loaded terminfo database, which means that OSCs such as \fIhyperlink_start/2\fR are not reset but have to be reset by emitting \fIhyperlink_reset/0\fR.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:reset().
<<"\\e(B\\e[m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBreverse_index() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move the cursor up one line, but keeps the cursor on the same location on the screen by scrolling the screen down.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:reverse_index().
<<"\\eM">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBscan(unicode:chardata()) ->\fR
\fB              [unicode:unicode_binary() |\fR
\fB               vts() |\fR
\fB               {csi, unicode:unicode_binary()}].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Scan the string for virtial terminal sequences.

.PP
The recognized VTSs will be converted into the corresponding \fIvts/0\fR.

.PP
If you intend to parse arrow keys it is recommended that you first set the terminal in application mode by using \fIkeypad_transmit_mode/0\fR. This will make it easier for \fIio_ansi\fR to correctly detect arrow keys.

.PP
Any unrecognized control sequence introducers, will be placed in a tuple tagged with \fIcsi\fR.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:scan("\\eOA").
[kcursor_up]
2> io_ansi:scan("\\eOB").
[kcursor_down]
3> io_ansi:scan(io_ansi:format([bold, "text"])).
[bold, ~"text", reset]
4> io_ansi:scan(io_ansi:format([{cursor, 0, 0}])).
[{csi, ~"\\e[1;1H"}, reset]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBscroll_backward() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Scroll the screen backward 1 step.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:scroll_backward().
<<"\\e[1T">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBscroll_backward(Steps :: integer()) -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Scroll the screen backward \fIN\fR step.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:scroll_backward(42).
<<"\\e[42T">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBscroll_change_region(Line1 :: integer(), Line2 :: integer()) ->\fR
\fB                              unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change the scolling region to be from \fILine1\fR to \fILine2\fR.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:scroll_change_region(10, 20).
<<"\\e[11;21r">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBscroll_forward() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Scroll the screen forward 1 step.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:scroll_forward().
<<"\\e[1S">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBscroll_forward(N :: integer()) -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Scroll the screen forward \fIN\fR step.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:scroll_forward(42).
<<"\\e[42S">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBstrikethrough() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn on strikethrough text style. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:strikethrough().
<<"\\e[9m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBstrikethrough_off() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn off strikethrough text style.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:strikethrough_off().
<<"\\e[29m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBtab() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move cursor one tab forward.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:tab().
<<"\\t">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBtab_backward() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Move cursor one tab backward.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:tab_backward().
<<"\\e[Z">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBtab_clear() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Clear any tab location at the current cursor location.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:tab_clear().
<<"\\e[0g">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBtab_clear_all() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Clear all tab locations.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:tab_clear_all().
<<"\\e[3g">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBtab_set() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Set a new tab location at the current cursor location.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:tab_set().
<<"\\eH">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBtigetflag(TermInfoCapName :: string()) -> boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the terminfo capability is available, otherwise false.

.PP
The names of the terminal capabilities can be found in the terminfo documentation, or by calling \fItinfo/0\fR. \fItigetflag/1\fR will use the terminfo definition associated with the \fITERM\fR environment variable when the Erlang VM is started. It is not possible to change after startup.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:tigetflag("xn").
true
2> io_ansi:tigetflag("foobar").
false

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBtigetnum(TermInfoCapName :: string()) -> -1 | non_neg_integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the number representing a terminfo capability.

.PP
The names of the terminal capabilities can be found in the terminfo documentation, or by calling \fItinfo/0\fR. \fItigetnum/1\fR will use the terminfo definition associated with the \fITERM\fR environment variable when the Erlang VM is started. It is not possible to change after startup.

.PP
Returns \fI-1\fR if the capability is not available.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:tigetnum("co").
80
2> io_ansi:tigetnum("foobar").
-1

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBtinfo() ->\fR
\fB               #{bool :=\fR
\fB                     [#{code := string(),\fR
\fB                        name := string(),\fR
\fB                        full_name := string()}]}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns information about all available terminfo capabilities. See the terminfo documentation for details on each.

.PP
\fItinfo/0\fR will use the terminfo definition associated with the \fITERM\fR environment variable when the Erlang VM is started. It is not possible to change after startup.

.PP
When calling \fItput/2\fR, \fItigetnum/1\fR and \fItigetflag/1\fR you should provide the \fIname\fR of the capability you want.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:tinfo().
#{ bool => [#{code => "xr",name => "OTxr",full_name => "return_does_clr_eol"} | ...],
   str => [#{code => "bx",name => "box1",full_name => "box_chars_1"} | ...],
   num => [#{code => "kn",name => "OTkn", full_name => "number_of_function_keys"} | ...]
 }

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBtput(TermInfoCapName :: string(), Args :: [integer()]) ->\fR
\fB              unicode:unicode_binary().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the string representing the action taken by the given terminal capability.

.PP
The names of the terminal capabilities can be found in the terminfo documentation, or by calling \fItinfo/0\fR. \fItput/2\fR will use the terminfo definition associated with the \fITERM\fR environment variable when the Erlang VM is started. It is not possible to change after startup.

.PP
If the given capability is not defined in the terminfo database an \fIenotsup\fR error is generated, if the given capability is invalid a \fIbadarg\fR error is generated.

.PP
This function does not work on Windows and will always generate a \fIbadarg\fR exception.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
%% Set the foreground color to 3
1> io_ansi:tput("setaf",[3]).
<<"\\e[33m">>
%% Move the cursor up 2 spaces
2> io_ansi:tput("cuu",[2]).
<<"\\e[2A">>
%% Move the cursor down 1 space
3> io_ansi:tput("cud1").
<<"\\n">>
%% unsupported capability
4> io_ansi:tput("slm").
** exception error: {enotsup,"slm"}
     in function  io_ansi:tput/2
%% unknown capability
5> io_ansi:tput("foobar").
** exception error: {einval,"foobar",[]}
     in function  io_ansi:tput/2

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBunderline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn on underline text style.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:underline().
<<"\\e[4m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBunderline_color(Index :: 0..255 | color_atom()) ->\fR
\fB                         unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Set underline color to a named color or index color. Not widely supported.

.PP
Accepts color atoms (\fIred\fR, \fIblue\fR, \fIlight_green\fR, etc.) or index colors (0-255). Index 0-15 correspond to the named colors in \fIcolor_atom/0\fR.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:underline_color(red).
<<"\\e[58;5;1m">>
2> io_ansi:underline_color(light_cyan).
<<"\\e[58;5;14m">>
3> io_ansi:underline_color(196).
<<"\\e[58;5;196m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBunderline_color(0..255, 0..255, 0..255) -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Set underline color to RGB color. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:underline_color(255, 0, 0).
<<"\\e[58;2;255;0;0m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBunderline_off() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Turn off underline text style.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:underline_off().
<<"\\e[24m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBwhite() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to white.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:white().
<<"\\e[37m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBwhite_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to white.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:white_background().
<<"\\e[47m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBwhite_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change underline color to white. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:white_underline().
<<"\\e[58;5;7m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fByellow() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change foreground (aka text) color to yellow.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:yellow().
<<"\\e[33m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fByellow_background() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change background color to yellow.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:yellow_background().
<<"\\e[43m">>

.fi


.RE
.B
\fByellow_underline() -> unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change underline color to yellow. Not widely supported.

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
1> io_ansi:yellow_underline().
<<"\\e[58;5;3m">>

.fi


.RE
