.TH logger_filters 3 "kernel 10.6.1" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
logger_filters \- Filters to use with Logger.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
All functions exported from this module can be used as primary or handler filters. See \fIlogger:add_primary_filter/2\fR and \fIlogger:add_handler_filter/3\fR for more information about how filters are added.

.PP
Filters are removed with \fIlogger:remove_primary_filter/1\fR and \fIlogger:remove_handler_filter/2\fR.

.PP
\fBSee Also\fR

.PP
\fIlogger\fR

.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdomain(LogEvent, Extra) -> logger:filter_return()\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    LogEvent :: logger:log_event(),\fR
\fB                    Extra :: {Action, Compare, MatchDomain},\fR
\fB                    Action :: log | stop,\fR
\fB                    Compare ::\fR
\fB                        super | sub | equal | not_equal | undefined,\fR
\fB                    MatchDomain :: [atom()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This filter provides a way of filtering log events based on a \fIdomain\fR field in \fIMetadata\fR. This field is optional, and the purpose of using it is to group log events from, for example, a specific functional area. This allows filtering or other specialized treatment in a Logger handler.

.PP
A domain field must be a list of atoms, creating smaller and more specialized domains as the list grows longer. The greatest domain is \fI[]\fR, which comprises all possible domains.

.PP
For example, consider the following domains:

.IP
.nf
D1 = [otp]
D2 = [otp, sasl]

.fi

.PP
\fID1\fR is the greatest of the two, and is said to be a super-domain of \fID2\fR. \fID2\fR is a sub-domain \fID1\fR. Both \fID1\fR and \fID2\fR are sub-domains of \fI[]\fR.

.PP
The above domains are used for logs originating from Erlang/OTP. D1 specifies that the log event comes from Erlang/OTP in general, and D2 indicates that the log event is a so called SASL report.

.PP
The \fIExtra\fR parameter to the \fIdomain/2\fR function is specified when adding the filter via \fIlogger:add_primary_filter/2\fR or \fIlogger:add_handler_filter/3\fR.

.PP
The filter compares the value of the \fIdomain\fR field in the log event's metadata (\fIDomain\fR) against \fIMatchDomain\fR. The filter matches if the value of \fICompare\fR is:

sub
.RS 2
and 
\fIDomain\fR is equal to or a sub-domain of \fIMatchDomain\fR, that is, if \fIMatchDomain\fR is a prefix of \fIDomain\fR.

.RE

super
.RS 2
and 
\fIDomain\fR is equal to or a super-domain of \fIMatchDomain\fR, that is, if \fIDomain\fR is a prefix of \fIMatchDomain\fR.

.RE

equal
.RS 2
and 
\fIDomain\fR is equal to \fIMatchDomain\fR.

.RE

not_equal
.RS 2
and 
\fIDomain\fR differs from \fIMatchDomain\fR, or if there is no domain field in metadata.

.RE

undefined
.RS 2
and there is no domain field in metadata. In this case 
\fIMatchDomain\fR must be set to \fI[]\fR.

.RE

.PP
If the filter matches and \fIAction\fR is \fIlog\fR, the log event is allowed. If the filter matches and \fIAction\fR is \fIstop\fR, the log event is stopped.

.PP
If the filter does not match, it returns \fIignore\fR, meaning that other filters, or the value of the configuration parameter \fIfilter_default\fR, decide if the event is allowed or not.

.PP
Log events that do not contain any domain field, match only when \fICompare\fR is equal to \fIundefined\fR or \fInot_equal\fR.

.PP
Example: stop all events with domain \fI[otp, sasl | _]\fR

.IP
.nf
1> logger:set_handler_config(h1, filter_default, log). % this is the default
ok
2> Filter = {fun logger_filters:domain/2, {stop, sub, [otp, sasl]}}.
...
3> logger:add_handler_filter(h1, no_sasl, Filter).
ok

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlevel(LogEvent, Extra) -> logger:filter_return()\fR
\fB               when\fR
\fB                   LogEvent :: logger:log_event(),\fR
\fB                   Extra :: {Action, Operator, MatchLevel},\fR
\fB                   Action :: log | stop,\fR
\fB                   Operator :: neq | eq | lt | gt | lteq | gteq,\fR
\fB                   MatchLevel :: logger:level().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This filter provides a way of filtering log events based on the log level. It matches log events by comparing the log level with a specified \fIMatchLevel\fR

.PP
The \fIExtra\fR parameter is specified when adding the filter via \fIlogger:add_primary_filter/2\fR or \fIlogger:add_handler_filter/3\fR.

.PP
The filter compares the value of the event's log level (\fILevel\fR) to \fIMatchLevel\fR by calling \fIlogger:compare_levels(Level, MatchLevel)\fR. The filter matches if the value of \fIOperator\fR is:

neq
.RS 2
and the compare function returns 
\fIlt\fR or \fIgt\fR.

.RE

eq
.RS 2
and the compare function returns 
\fIeq\fR.

.RE

lt
.RS 2
and the compare function returns 
\fIlt\fR.

.RE

gt
.RS 2
and the compare function returns 
\fIgt\fR.

.RE

lteq
.RS 2
and the compare function returns 
\fIlt\fR or \fIeq\fR.

.RE

gteq
.RS 2
and the compare function returns 
\fIgt\fR or \fIeq\fR.

.RE

.PP
If the filter matches and \fIAction\fR is \fIlog\fR, the log event is allowed. If the filter matches and \fIAction\fR is \fIstop\fR, the log event is stopped.

.PP
If the filter does not match, it returns \fIignore\fR, meaning that other filters, or the value of the configuration parameter \fIfilter_default\fR, will decide if the event is allowed or not.

.PP
Example: only allow debug level log events

.IP
.nf
logger:set_handler_config(h1, filter_default, stop).
Filter = {fun logger_filters:level/2, {log, eq, debug}}.
logger:add_handler_filter(h1, debug_only, Filter).
ok

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBprogress(LogEvent, Extra) -> logger:filter_return()\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      LogEvent :: logger:log_event(),\fR
\fB                      Extra :: log | stop.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This filter matches all progress reports from \fIsupervisor\fR and \fIapplication_controller\fR.

.PP
If \fIExtra\fR is \fIlog\fR, the progress reports are allowed. If \fIExtra\fR is \fIstop\fR, the progress reports are stopped.

.PP
The filter returns \fIignore\fR for all other log events.


.RE
.B
\fBremote_gl(LogEvent, Extra) -> logger:filter_return()\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       LogEvent :: logger:log_event(),\fR
\fB                       Extra :: log | stop.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This filter matches all events originating from a process that has its group leader on a remote node.

.PP
If \fIExtra\fR is \fIlog\fR, the matching events are allowed. If \fIExtra\fR is \fIstop\fR, the matching events are stopped.

.PP
The filter returns \fIignore\fR for all other log events.


.RE
