.TH math 3 "stdlib 7.3" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
math \- Mathematical functions.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This module provides an interface to a number of mathematical functions.

.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBacos(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the arc cosine of \fIX\fR in radians.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:acos(1.0).
0.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBacosh(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the inverse hyperbolic cosine of \fIX\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:acosh(1.0).
0.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBasin(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the arc cosine of \fIX\fR in radians.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:asin(0.0).
0.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBasinh(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the inverse hyperbolic sine of \fIX\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:asinh(0.0).
0.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBatan(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the arc tangent of \fIX\fR in radians.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:atan(0.0).
0.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBatan2(Y, X) -> float() when Y :: number(), X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the arc tangent of \fIY\fR/\fIX\fR in radians, using the signs of both arguments to determine the quadrant of the return value.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:atan2(0.0, -10.0).
3.141592653589793

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBatanh(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the inverse hyperbolic tangent of \fIX\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:atanh(0.0).
0.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBceil(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the ceiling of \fIX\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:ceil(7.5).
8.0
2> math:ceil(-5.5).
-5.0
3> math:ceil(1.0).
1.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcos(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the cosine of \fIX\fR in radians.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:cos(0.0).
1.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBcosh(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the hyperbolic cosine of \fIX\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:cosh(0.0).
1.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBerf(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the error function of \fIX\fR.

.PP
See Error function (Wikipedia).

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:erf(0.0).
0.0
2> math:erf(10.0).
1.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBerfc(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fI1.0\fR - \fIerf(X)\fR, computed using methods that avoid cancellation for large \fIX\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:erfc(0.0).
1.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBexp(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fIe\fR raised to the power of \fIX\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:exp(0).
1.0
2> trunc(100 * math:exp(1)).
271

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfloor(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the floor of \fIX\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:floor(9.1).
9.0
2> math:floor(-1.5).
-2.0
3> math:floor(1.0).
1.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfmod(X, Y) -> float() when X :: number(), Y :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the floating point remainder \fIX\fR divided by \fIY\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:fmod(10.5, 8.0).
2.5

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlog(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the natural logarithm of \fIX\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:log(1.0).
0.0
2> math:log(2.718281828459045).
1.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlog10(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns logarithm of \fIX\fR to base 10.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:log10(1.0).
0.0
2> math:log10(10.0).
1.0
3> math:log10(100).
2.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBlog2(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns logarithm of \fIX\fR to base 2.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:log2(1.0).
0.0
2> math:log2(2.0).
1.0
3> math:log2(64).
6.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBpi() -> float().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:pi().
3.141592653589793

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBpow(X, N) -> float() when X :: number(), N :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Raise \fIX\fR to the power \fIN\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:pow(2, 6).
64.0
2> math:pow(10.0, 3.0).
1000.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBsin(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the sine of \fIX\fR in radians.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:sin(0.0).
0.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBsinh(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the hyperbolic sine of \fIX\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:sinh(0.0).
0.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBsqrt(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the non-negative square root of \fIX\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:sqrt(2).
1.4142135623730951
2> math:sqrt(100.0).
10.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBtan(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the tangent of \fIX\fR in radians.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:tan(0.0).
0.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBtanh(X) -> float() when X :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the hyperbolic tangent of \fIX\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:tan(0.0).
0.0

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBtau() -> float().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its radius.

.PP
This constant is equivalent to a full turn when described in radians.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> math:tau().
6.283185307179586
2> math:tau() == 2 * math:pi().
true

.fi


.RE
