.TH megaco_tcp 3 "megaco 4.8.3" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
megaco_tcp \- Interface module to TPKT transport protocol for Megaco/H.248.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This module contains the public interface to the TPKT (TCP/IP) version transport protocol for Megaco/H.248.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBcounter() ::\fR
\fB          medGwyGatewayNumInMessages | medGwyGatewayNumInOctets |\fR
\fB          medGwyGatewayNumOutMessages | medGwyGatewayNumOutOctets |\fR
\fB          medGwyGatewayNumErrors.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Defines the different counters handled by this transport.


.RE
.B
\fB-opaque handle() \fR

.br
.RS
.PP
An opaque data type representing a TPKT connection.


.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBblock(Handle) -> ok when Handle :: handle().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Stop receiving incoming messages on the socket.


.RE
.B
\fBclose(Handle) -> ok when Handle :: handle().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is used for closing an active TPKT connection.


.RE
.B
\fBconnect(TransportRef, Opts) ->\fR
\fB                 {ok, Handle, ControlPid} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                 when\fR
\fB                     TransportRef :: pid() | RegName,\fR
\fB                     RegName :: atom(),\fR
\fB                     Opts :: [Option],\fR
\fB                     Option ::\fR
\fB                         {inet_backend, default | inet | socket} |\fR
\fB                         {host, Host} |\fR
\fB                         {port, PortNum} |\fR
\fB                         {options, list()} |\fR
\fB                         {receive_handle, term()} |\fR
\fB                         {module, atom()},\fR
\fB                     Host :: inet:socket_address() | inet:hostname(),\fR
\fB                     PortNum :: inet:port_number(),\fR
\fB                     Handle :: handle(),\fR
\fB                     ControlPid :: pid(),\fR
\fB                     Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is used to open a TPKT connection.

module
.RS 2
This option makes it possible for the user to provide their own callback module. The 
\fIreceive_message/4\fR or \fIprocess_received_message/4\fR functions of this module is called when a new message is received. Which one is called depends on the size of the message;
small
.RS 2
receive_message


.RE

large
.RS 2
process_received_message


.RE

.PP
Default value is \fImegaco\fR.


.RE

inet_backend
.RS 2
Choose the inet-backend.

.PP
This option make it possible to use a different inet-backend ('default', 'inet' or 'socket').

.PP
Default is \fIdefault\fR (system default).


.RE


.RE
.B
\fBget_stats() -> {ok, TotalStats} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       TotalStats :: [{Handle, [{Counter, integer()}]}],\fR
\fB                       Handle :: handle(),\fR
\fB                       Counter :: counter(),\fR
\fB                       Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get all counter values for all known connections.


.RE
.B
\fBget_stats(Handle) -> {ok, Stats} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       Handle :: handle(),\fR
\fB                       Stats :: [{Counter, integer()}],\fR
\fB                       Counter :: counter(),\fR
\fB                       Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get all counter values for a given (connection) handle.


.RE
.B
\fBget_stats(Handle, Counter) -> {ok, integer()} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       Handle :: handle(),\fR
\fB                       Counter :: counter(),\fR
\fB                       Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get the value of a specific counter.


.RE
.B
\fBlisten(TransportRef, Options) -> ok\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    TransportRef :: pid() | RegName,\fR
\fB                    RegName :: atom(),\fR
\fB                    Options :: [Option],\fR
\fB                    Option ::\fR
\fB                        {inet_backend, default | inet | socket} |\fR
\fB                        {port, inet:port_number()} |\fR
\fB                        {options, list()} |\fR
\fB                        {receive_handle, term()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is used for starting new TPKT listening socket for TCP/IP. The option list contains the socket definitions.

inet_backend
.RS 2
Choose the inet-backend.

.PP
This option make it possible to use a different inet-backend ('default', 'inet' or 'socket').

.PP
Default is \fIdefault\fR (system default).


.RE


.RE
.B
\fBreset_stats() -> megaco:void().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Reset all counters for all connections.


.RE
.B
\fBreset_stats(Handle) -> megaco:void() when Handle :: handle().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Reset all counters for the given connection.


.RE
.B
\fBsend_message(Handle, Msg) -> ok\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          Handle :: handle(), Msg :: binary() | iolist().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sends a message on a TPKT connection.


.RE
.B
\fBsocket(Handle) -> Socket\fR
\fB                when Handle :: handle(), Socket :: inet:socket().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is used to convert a socket \fIhandle()\fR to a inet \fIsocket()\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBstart_transport() -> {ok, TransportRef} when TransportRef :: pid().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is used for starting the TCP/IP transport service. Use exit(TransportRef, Reason) to stop the transport service.


.RE
.B
\fBunblock(Handle) -> ok when Handle :: handle().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Starting to receive incoming messages from the socket again.


.RE
.B
\fBupgrade_receive_handle(ControlPid, NewRecvHandle) -> ok\fR
\fB                                when\fR
\fB                                    ControlPid :: pid(),\fR
\fB                                    NewRecvHandle :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Upgrade the receive handle of the control process (e.g. after having changed protocol version).


.RE
