.TH megaco_sdp 3 "megaco 4.8.3" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
megaco_sdp \- SDP utility module.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This module contains various things related to SDP.

.SS "Version note"

.PP
This module has existed in the megaco app for long time, but as of 27.0 its also documented.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBproperty_group() :: [property_parm()].\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBproperty_groups() :: [property_group()].\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBproperty_parm() :: #'PropertyParm'{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsdp() ::\fR
\fB          sdp_o() |\fR
\fB          sdp_s() |\fR
\fB          sdp_i() |\fR
\fB          sdp_u() |\fR
\fB          sdp_e() |\fR
\fB          sdp_p() |\fR
\fB          sdp_c() |\fR
\fB          sdp_b() |\fR
\fB          sdp_k() |\fR
\fB          sdp_a() |\fR
\fB          sdp_a_rtpmap() |\fR
\fB          sdp_a_ptime() |\fR
\fB          sdp_z() |\fR
\fB          sdp_t() |\fR
\fB          sdp_r() |\fR
\fB          sdp_m().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsdp_a() :: #megaco_sdp_a{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Session attribute.


.RE
.B
\fBsdp_a_fmtp() :: #megaco_sdp_a_fmtp{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsdp_a_ptime() :: #megaco_sdp_a_ptime{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsdp_a_quality() :: #megaco_sdp_a_quality{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsdp_a_rtpmap() :: #megaco_sdp_a_rtpmap{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsdp_b() :: #megaco_sdp_b{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Bandwidth information.


.RE
.B
\fBsdp_c() :: #megaco_sdp_c{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Connection information.


.RE
.B
\fBsdp_e() :: #megaco_sdp_e{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Email address.


.RE
.B
\fBsdp_i() :: #megaco_sdp_i{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Session information.


.RE
.B
\fBsdp_k() :: #megaco_sdp_k{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Encryption key.


.RE
.B
\fBsdp_m() :: #megaco_sdp_m{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Media name and transport address.


.RE
.B
\fBsdp_o() :: #megaco_sdp_o{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Owner/creator and session identifier.


.RE
.B
\fBsdp_p() :: #megaco_sdp_p{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Phone number.


.RE
.B
\fBsdp_property_group() :: [sdp_property_parm()].\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsdp_property_groups() :: [sdp_property_group()].\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsdp_property_parm() :: sdp() | property_parm().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsdp_r() :: #megaco_sdp_r{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Repeat times.


.RE
.B
\fBsdp_s() :: #megaco_sdp_s{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Session name.


.RE
.B
\fBsdp_t() :: #megaco_sdp_t{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsdp_u() :: #megaco_sdp_u{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
URI of description.


.RE
.B
\fBsdp_v() :: #megaco_sdp_v{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Protocol version.


.RE
.B
\fBsdp_z() :: #megaco_sdp_z{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Time zone adjustment.


.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
