.TH megaco_udp 3 "megaco 4.8.3" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
megaco_udp \- Interface module to UDP transport protocol for Megaco/H.248.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This module contains the public interface to the UDP/IP version transport protocol for Megaco/H.248.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBcounter() ::\fR
\fB          medGwyGatewayNumInMessages | medGwyGatewayNumInOctets |\fR
\fB          medGwyGatewayNumOutMessages | medGwyGatewayNumOutOctets |\fR
\fB          medGwyGatewayNumErrors.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Defines the different counters handled by this transport.


.RE
.B
\fB-opaque handle() \fR

.br
.RS
.PP
An opaque data type representing an UDP socket.


.RE
.B
\fB-opaque send_handle() \fR

.br
.RS
.PP
An opaque data type representing an UDP socket, used when sending.


.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBblock(Handle) -> ok when Handle :: handle() | send_handle().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Stop receiving incoming messages on the socket.


.RE
.B
\fBclose(Handle) -> ok when Handle :: handle() | send_handle().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is used for closing an active UDP socket.


.RE
.B
\fBcreate_send_handle(Handle, Host, Port) -> send_handle()\fR
\fB                            when\fR
\fB                                Handle :: handle(),\fR
\fB                                Host ::\fR
\fB                                    inet:ip4_address() | inet:hostname(),\fR
\fB                                Port :: inet:port_number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Creates a send handle from a transport handle. The send handle is intended to be used by megaco_udp:send_message/2.


.RE
.B
\fBget_stats() -> {ok, TotalStats} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       TotalStats :: [{SH, [{Counter, integer()}]}],\fR
\fB                       SH :: send_handle(),\fR
\fB                       Counter :: counter(),\fR
\fB                       Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get all counter values for all known connections.


.RE
.B
\fBget_stats(SH) -> {ok, Stats} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       SH :: send_handle(),\fR
\fB                       Stats :: [{Counter, integer()}],\fR
\fB                       Counter :: counter(),\fR
\fB                       Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get all counter values for a given handle.


.RE
.B
\fBget_stats(SH, Counter) -> {ok, integer()} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       SH :: send_handle(),\fR
\fB                       Counter :: counter(),\fR
\fB                       Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get the value of a specific counter.


.RE
.B
\fBopen(TransportRef, Opts) ->\fR
\fB              {ok, Handle, ControlPid} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  TransportRef :: pid(),\fR
\fB                  Opts ::\fR
\fB                      {inet_backend, default | inet | socket} |\fR
\fB                      {port, PortNum} |\fR
\fB                      {options, list()} |\fR
\fB                      {receive_handle, term()} |\fR
\fB                      {module, atom()},\fR
\fB                  PortNum :: inet:port_number(),\fR
\fB                  Handle :: handle(),\fR
\fB                  ControlPid :: pid(),\fR
\fB                  Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is used to open an UDP/IP socket.

module
.RS 2
The option makes it possible for the user to provide their own callback module. The functions 
\fIreceive_message/4\fR or \fIprocess_received_message/4\fR of this module is called when a new message is received. Which one depends on the size of the message:
small
.RS 2
receive_message


.RE

large
.RS 2
process_received_message


.RE

.PP
Default value is \fImegaco\fR.


.RE

inet_backend
.RS 2
Choose the inet-backend.

.PP
This option make it possible to use a different inet-backend ('default', 'inet' or 'socket').

.PP
Default is \fIdefault\fR (system default).


.RE


.RE
.B
\fBreset_stats() -> megaco:void().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Reset all counters for all UDP handles.


.RE
.B
\fBreset_stats(SH) -> megaco:void() when SH :: send_handle().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Reset all counters for the given UDP handle.


.RE
.B
\fBsend_message(SH, Msg) -> ok\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          SH :: send_handle(),\fR
\fB                          Msg :: binary() | iolist().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sends a message on a socket. The send handle is obtained by megaco_udp:create_send_handle/3. Increments the NumOutMessages and NumOutOctets counters if message successfully sent. In case of a failure to send, the NumErrors counter is \fInot\fR incremented. This is done elsewhere in the megaco app.


.RE
.B
\fBsocket(Handle) -> Socket\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    Handle :: handle() | send_handle(),\fR
\fB                    Socket :: inet:socket().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is used to convert a socket \fIhandle()\fR to a inet \fIsocket()\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBstart_transport() -> {ok, TransportRef} when TransportRef :: pid().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is used for starting the UDP/IP transport service. Use exit(TransportRef, Reason) to stop the transport service.


.RE
.B
\fBunblock(Handle) -> ok when Handle :: handle() | send_handle().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Starting to receive incoming messages from the socket again.


.RE
.B
\fBupgrade_receive_handle(ControlPid, NewRecvHandle) -> ok\fR
\fB                                when\fR
\fB                                    ControlPid :: pid(),\fR
\fB                                    NewRecvHandle :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Update the receive handle of the control process (e.g. after having changed protocol version).


.RE
