.TH ordsets 3 "stdlib 7.3" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
ordsets \- Functions for manipulating sets as ordered lists.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Sets are collections of elements with no duplicate elements. An \fIordset\fR is a representation of a set, where an ordered list is used to store the elements of the set. An ordered list is more efficient than an unordered list. Elements are ordered according to the \fIErlang term order\fR.

.PP
This module provides the same interface as the \fIsets\fR module but with a defined representation. One difference is that while \fIsets\fR considers two elements as different if they do not match (\fI=:=\fR), this module considers two elements as different if and only if they do not compare equal (\fI==\fR).

.PP
See the Compatibility Section in the \fIsets\fR module for more information about the compatibility of the different implementations of sets in the Standard Library.

.PP
\fBSee Also\fR

.PP
\fIgb_sets\fR, \fIsets\fR

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBordset(T) :: [T].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
As returned by \fInew/0\fR.


.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBadd_element(Element, Ordset1) -> Ordset2\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         Element :: E,\fR
\fB                         Ordset1 :: ordset(T),\fR
\fB                         Ordset2 :: ordset(T | E).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a new ordered set formed from \fIOrdset1\fR with \fIElement\fR inserted.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = ordsets:new().
[]
2> S1 = ordsets:add_element(7, S0).
[7]
3> S2 = ordsets:add_element(42, S1).
[7,42]
4> ordsets:add_element(42, S2).
[7,42]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdel_element(Element, Ordset1) -> Ordset2\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         Element :: term(),\fR
\fB                         Ordset1 :: ordset(T),\fR
\fB                         Ordset2 :: ordset(T).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a copy of \fIOrdset1\fR with \fIElement\fR removed.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = ordsets:from_list([a,b,c]).
2> ordsets:del_element(c, S).
[a,b]
3> ordsets:del_element(x, S).
[a,b,c]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfilter(Pred, Ordset1) -> Ordset2\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    Pred :: fun((Element :: T) -> boolean()),\fR
\fB                    Ordset1 :: ordset(T),\fR
\fB                    Ordset2 :: ordset(T).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Filters elements in \fIOrdset1\fR using predicate function \fIPred\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = ordsets:from_list([1,2,3,4,5,6,7]).
2> IsEven = fun(N) -> N rem 2 =:= 0 end.
3> ordsets:filter(IsEven, S).
[2,4,6]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfiltermap(Fun, Ordset1) -> Ordset2\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       Fun ::\fR
\fB                           fun((Element1 :: T1) ->\fR
\fB                                   boolean() | {true, Element2 :: T2}),\fR
\fB                       Ordset1 :: ordset(T1),\fR
\fB                       Ordset2 :: ordset(T1 | T2).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Calls \fIFun(Elem)\fR for each \fIElem\fR of \fIOrdset1\fR to update or remove elements from \fIOrdset1\fR.

.PP
\fIFun/1\fR must return either a Boolean or a tuple \fI{true, Value}\fR. The function returns the set of elements for which \fIFun\fR returns a new value, with \fItrue\fR being equivalent to \fI{true, Elem}\fR.

.PP
\fIordsets:filtermap/2\fR behaves as if it were defined as follows:

.IP
.nf
filtermap(Fun, Ordset1) ->
    ordsets:from_list(lists:filtermap(Fun, ordsets:to_list(Ordset1))).

.fi

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = ordsets:from_list([2,4,5,6,8,9]).
2> F = fun(X) ->
           case X rem 2 of
               0 -> {true, X div 2};
               1 -> false
           end
        end.
3> ordsets:filtermap(F, S).
[1,2,3,4]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfold(Function, Acc0, Ordset) -> Acc1\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  Function ::\fR
\fB                      fun((Element :: T, AccIn :: term()) ->\fR
\fB                              AccOut :: term()),\fR
\fB                  Ordset :: ordset(T),\fR
\fB                  Acc0 :: term(),\fR
\fB                  Acc1 :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Folds \fIFunction\fR over every element in \fIOrdset\fR and returns the final value of the accumulator.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = ordsets:from_list([1,2,3,4]).
2> Plus = fun erlang:'+'/2.
3> ordsets:fold(Plus, 0, S).
10

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBfrom_list(List) -> Ordset when List :: [T], Ordset :: ordset(T).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns an ordered set of the elements in \fIList\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> ordsets:from_list([a,b,a,b,b,c]).
[a,b,c]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBintersection(OrdsetList) -> Ordset\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          OrdsetList :: [ordset(_), ...],\fR
\fB                          Ordset :: ordset(_).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the intersection of the non-empty list of sets.

.PP
The intersection of multiple sets is a new set that contains only the elements that are present in all sets.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = ordsets:from_list([a,b,c,d]).
2> S1 = ordsets:from_list([d,e,f]).
3> S2 = ordsets:from_list([q,r]).
4> Sets = [S0, S1, S2].
5> ordsets:intersection([S0, S1, S2]).
[]
6> ordsets:intersection([S0, S1]).
[d]
7> ordsets:intersection([]).
** exception error: no function clause matching ordsets:intersection([])

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBintersection(Ordset1, Ordset2) -> Ordset3\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          Ordset1 :: ordset(_),\fR
\fB                          Ordset2 :: ordset(_),\fR
\fB                          Ordset3 :: ordset(_).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the intersection of \fIOrdset1\fR and \fIOrdset2\fR.

.PP
The intersection of two sets is a new set that contains only the elements that are present in both sets.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = ordsets:from_list([a,b,c,d]).
2> S1 = ordsets:from_list([c,d,e,f]).
3> S2 = ordsets:from_list([q,r]).
4> ordsets:intersection(S0, S1).
[c,d]
5> ordsets:intersection(S1, S2).
[]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBis_disjoint(Ordset1, Ordset2) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                     when Ordset1 :: ordset(_), Ordset2 :: ordset(_).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fItrue\fR if \fIOrdset1\fR and \fIOrdset2\fR are disjoint; otherwise, returns \fIfalse\fR.

.PP
Two sets are disjoint if they have no elements in common.

.PP
This function is equivalent to \fIordsets:is_empty(ordsets:intersection(Ordset1, Ordset2))\fR, but faster.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = ordsets:from_list([a,b,c,d]).
2> S1 = ordsets:from_list([d,e,f]).
3> S2 = ordsets:from_list([q,r]).
4> ordsets:is_disjoint(S0, S1).
false
5> ordsets:is_disjoint(S1, S2).
true

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBis_element(Element, Ordset) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                    when Element :: term(), Ordset :: ordset(_).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fItrue\fR if \fIElement\fR is an element of \fIOrdset\fR; otherwise, returns \fIfalse\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = ordsets:from_list([a,b,c]).
2> ordsets:is_element(42, S).
false
3> ordsets:is_element(b, S).
true

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBis_empty(Ordset) -> boolean() when Ordset :: ordset(_).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fItrue\fR if \fIOrdset\fR is an empty set; otherwise, returns \fIfalse\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> ordsets:is_empty(ordsets:new()).
true
2> ordsets:is_empty(ordsets:from_list([1])).
false

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBis_equal(Ordset1, Ordset2) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                  when Ordset1 :: ordset(_), Ordset2 :: ordset(_).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fItrue\fR if \fIOrdset1\fR and \fIOrdset2\fR are equal, that is, if every element of one set is also a member of the other set; otherwise, returns \fIfalse\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> Empty = ordsets:new().
2> S = ordsets:from_list([a,b]).
3> ordsets:is_equal(S, S).
true
4> ordsets:is_equal(S, Empty).
false

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBis_set(Ordset) -> boolean() when Ordset :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fItrue\fR if \fIOrdset\fR is an ordered set of elements; otherwise, returns \fIfalse\fR.

.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRThis function returns true for any ordered list, even if it was not constructed using the functions in this module.


.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> ordsets:is_set(ordsets:from_list([a,x,13,{p,q}])).
true
2> ordsets:is_set([a,b,c]).
true
3> ordsets:is_set([z,a]).
false
4> ordsets:is_set({a,b}).
false

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBis_subset(Ordset1, Ordset2) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                   when Ordset1 :: ordset(_), Ordset2 :: ordset(_).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns \fItrue\fR when every element of \fIOrdset1\fR is also a member of \fIOrdset2\fR; otherwise, returns \fIfalse\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = ordsets:from_list([a,b,c,d]).
2> S1 = ordsets:from_list([c,d]).
3> ordsets:is_subset(S1, S0).
true
4> ordsets:is_subset(S0, S1).
false
5> ordsets:is_subset(S0, S0).
true

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBmap(Fun, Ordset1) -> Ordset2\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Fun :: fun((Element1 :: T1) -> Element2 :: T2),\fR
\fB                 Ordset1 :: ordset(T1),\fR
\fB                 Ordset2 :: ordset(T2).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Maps elements in \fIOrdset1\fR with mapping function \fIFun\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = ordsets:from_list([1,2,3,4,5,6,7]).
2> F = fun(N) -> N div 2 end.
3> ordsets:map(F, S).
[0,1,2,3]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBnew() -> ordset(none()).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a new empty ordered set.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> ordsets:new().
[]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBsize(Ordset) -> non_neg_integer() when Ordset :: ordset(_).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the number of elements in \fIOrdset\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> ordsets:size(ordsets:new()).
0
2> ordsets:size(ordsets:from_list([4,5,6])).
3

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBsubtract(Ordset1, Ordset2) -> Ordset3\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      Ordset1 :: ordset(_),\fR
\fB                      Ordset2 :: ordset(_),\fR
\fB                      Ordset3 :: ordset(_).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a new ordered set containing the elements of \fIOrdset1\fR that are not elements in \fIOrdset2\fR.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = ordsets:from_list([a,b,c,d]).
2> S1 = ordsets:from_list([c,d,e,f]).
3> ordsets:subtract(S0, S1).
[a,b]
4> ordsets:subtract(S1, S0).
[e,f]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBto_list(Ordset) -> List when Ordset :: ordset(T), List :: [T].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the elements of \fIOrdset\fR as a list.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S = ordsets:from_list([a,b]).
2> ordsets:to_list(S).
[a,b]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBunion(OrdsetList) -> Ordset\fR
\fB               when OrdsetList :: [ordset(T)], Ordset :: ordset(T).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the union of a list of sets.

.PP
The union of multiple sets is a new set that contains all the elements from all sets, without duplicates.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = ordsets:from_list([a,b,c,d]).
2> S1 = ordsets:from_list([d,e,f]).
3> S2 = ordsets:from_list([q,r]).
4> Sets = [S0, S1, S2].
5> ordsets:union(Sets).
[a,b,c,d,e,f,q,r]

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBunion(Ordset1, Ordset2) -> Ordset3\fR
\fB               when\fR
\fB                   Ordset1 :: ordset(T1),\fR
\fB                   Ordset2 :: ordset(T2),\fR
\fB                   Ordset3 :: ordset(T1 | T2).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the union of \fIOrdset1\fR and \fIOrdset2\fR.

.PP
The union of two sets is a new set that contains all the elements from both sets, without duplicates.

.SS "Examples"

.IP
.nf
1> S0 = ordsets:from_list([a,b,c,d]).
2> S1 = ordsets:from_list([c,d,e,f]).
3> ordsets:union(S0, S1).
[a,b,c,d,e,f]

.fi


.RE
