.TH random 3 "stdlib 7.3" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
random \- Pseudo-random number generation.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This module provides a random number generator. The method is attributed to B.A. Wichmann and I.D. Hill in 'An efficient and portable pseudo-random number generator', Journal of Applied Statistics. AS183. 1982. Also Byte March 1987.

.PP
The algorithm is a modification of the version attributed to Richard A. O'Keefe in the standard Prolog library.

.PP
Every time a random number is requested, a state is used to calculate it, and a new state is produced. The state can either be implicit (kept in the process dictionary) or be an explicit argument and return value. In this implementation, the state (the type \fIran/0\fR) consists of a tuple of three integers.

.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRThis random number generator is not cryptographically strong. If a strong cryptographic random number generator is needed, use one of functions in the \fIcrypto\fR module, for example, \fIcrypto:strong_rand_bytes/1\fR.


.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRThe improved \fIrand\fR module is to be used instead of this module.


.SS "Note"

.PP
Some of the functions use the process dictionary variable \fIrandom_seed\fR to remember the current seed.

.PP
If a process calls \fIuniform/0\fR or \fIuniform/1\fR without setting a seed first, \fIseed/0\fR is called automatically.

.PP
The implementation changed in Erlang/OTP R15. Upgrading to R15 breaks applications that expect a specific output for a specified seed. The output is still deterministic number series, but different compared to releases older than R15. Seed \fI{0,0,0}\fR does, for example, no longer produce a flawed series of only zeros.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBran() :: {integer(), integer(), integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The state.


.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBseed() -> ran().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: random:seed/0 is deprecated; use the 'rand' module instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Seeds random number generation with default (fixed) values in the process dictionary and returns the old state.


.RE
.B
\fBseed(SValue) -> undefined | ran()\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  SValue :: {A1, A2, A3} | integer(),\fR
\fB                  A1 :: integer(),\fR
\fB                  A2 :: integer(),\fR
\fB                  A3 :: integer().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: random:seed/1 is deprecated; use the 'rand' module instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIseed({A1, A2, A3})\fR is equivalent to \fIseed(A1, A2, A3)\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBseed(A1, A2, A3) -> undefined | ran()\fR
\fB              when A1 :: integer(), A2 :: integer(), A3 :: integer().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: random:seed/3 is deprecated; use the 'rand' module instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Seeds random number generation with integer values in the process dictionary and returns the old state.

.PP
The following is an easy way of obtaining a unique value to seed with:

.IP
.nf
random:seed(erlang:phash2([node()]),
            erlang:monotonic_time(),
            erlang:unique_integer())

.fi

.PP
For details, see \fIerlang:phash2/1\fR, \fIerlang:node/0\fR, \fIerlang:monotonic_time/0\fR, and \fIerlang:unique_integer/0\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBseed0() -> ran().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: random:seed0/0 is deprecated; use the 'rand' module instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the default state.


.RE
.B
\fBuniform() -> float().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: random:uniform/0 is deprecated; use the 'rand' module instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a random float uniformly distributed between \fI0.0\fR and \fI1.0\fR, updating the state in the process dictionary.


.RE
.B
\fBuniform(N) -> pos_integer() when N :: pos_integer().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: random:uniform/1 is deprecated; use the 'rand' module instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns, for a specified integer \fIN >= 1\fR, a random integer uniformly distributed between \fI1\fR and \fIN\fR, updating the state in the process dictionary.


.RE
.B
\fBuniform_s(State0) -> {float(), State1}\fR
\fB                   when State0 :: ran(), State1 :: ran().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: random:uniform_s/1 is deprecated; use the 'rand' module instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns, for a specified state, a random float uniformly distributed between \fI0.0\fR and \fI1.0\fR, and a new state.


.RE
.B
\fBuniform_s(N, State0) -> {integer(), State1}\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       N :: pos_integer(),\fR
\fB                       State0 :: ran(),\fR
\fB                       State1 :: ran().\fR

.RS
.LP
Deprecated: random:uniform_s/2 is deprecated; use the 'rand' module instead
.RE

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns, for a specified integer \fIN >= 1\fR and a state, a random integer uniformly distributed between \fI1\fR and \fIN\fR, and a new state.


.RE
