.TH snmp_pdus 3 "snmp 5.20.1" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
snmp_pdus \- Encode and Decode Functions for SNMP PDUs

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
RFC1157, RFC1905 and/or RFC2272 should be studied carefully before using this module, \fIsnmp_pdus\fR.

.PP
The module \fIsnmp_pdus\fR contains functions for encoding and decoding of SNMP protocol data units (PDUs). In short, this module converts a list of bytes to Erlang record representations and vice versa. The record definitions can be found in the file \fIsnmp/include/snmp_types.hrl\fR. If snmpv3 is used, the module that includes \fIsnmp_types.hrl\fR must define the constant \fISNMP_USE_V3\fR before the header file is included. Example:

.IP
.nf
-define(SNMP_USE_V3, true).
-include_lib("snmp/include/snmp_types.hrl").

.fi

.PP
Encoding and decoding must be done explicitly when writing your own Net if process.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBmessage() :: #message{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The message is version dependent. 'vsn_hdr' is either a community string (v1 and v2) or a 'v3_hdr' record (v3). 'data' is either a PDU (v1 and v2c) or a (possibly encrypted) 'scopedPdu'.


.RE
.B
\fBmsg_id() :: 0..2147483647.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBmsg_security_model() :: 0..2147483647.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBpdu() :: #pdu{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBpdu_type() ::\fR
\fB          'get-request' | 'get-next-request' | 'get-bulk-request' |\fR
\fB          'get-response' | 'set-request' | 'inform-request' |\fR
\fB          'snmpv2-trap' | report.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBscoped_pdu() :: #scopedPdu{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBtrappdu() :: #trappdu{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBusm_security_parameters() :: #usmSecurityParameters{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBv3_hdr() :: #v3_hdr{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBversion() :: 'version-1' | 'version-2' | 'version-3'.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdec_message(Bytes) -> Message\fR
\fB                     when Bytes :: [byte()], Message :: message().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Decodes a list of bytes into an SNMP Message. Note, if there is a v3 message, the \fImsgSecurityParameters\fR are not decoded. They must be explicitly decoded by a call to a security model specific decoding function, e.g. \fIdec_usm_security_parameters/1\fR. Also note, if the \fIscopedPDU\fR is encrypted, the OCTET STRING encoded \fIencryptedPDU\fR will be present in the \fIdata\fR field.


.RE
.B
\fBdec_message_only(Bytes) -> Message\fR
\fB                          when Bytes :: [byte()], Message :: message().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Decodes a list of bytes into an SNMP Message, but does not decode the data part of the Message. That means, data is still a list of bytes, normally an encoded \fIPDU\fR (v1 and V2) or an encoded and possibly encrypted \fIscopedPDU\fR (v3).


.RE
.B
\fBdec_pdu(Bytes) -> Pdu\fR
\fB                 when Bytes :: [byte()], Pdu :: trappdu() | pdu().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Decodes a list of bytes into an SNMP Pdu.


.RE
.B
\fBdec_scoped_pdu(Bytes) -> ScopedPDU\fR
\fB                        when\fR
\fB                            Bytes :: [byte()], ScopedPDU :: scoped_pdu().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Decodes a list of bytes into an SNMP ScopedPdu.


.RE
.B
\fBdec_scoped_pdu_data(Bytes) -> ScopedPduData\fR
\fB                             when\fR
\fB                                 Bytes :: [byte()],\fR
\fB                                 ScopedPduData ::\fR
\fB                                     scoped_pdu() | EncryptedPDU,\fR
\fB                                 EncryptedPDU :: [byte()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Decodes a list of bytes into either a scoped pdu record, or - if the scoped pdu was encrypted - to a list of bytes.


.RE
.B
\fBdec_usm_security_parameters(Bytes) -> UsmSecParams\fR
\fB                                     when\fR
\fB                                         Bytes :: [byte()],\fR
\fB                                         UsmSecParams ::\fR
\fB                                             usm_security_parameters().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Decodes a list of bytes into an SNMP UsmSecurityParameters.


.RE
.B
\fBenc_message(Message) -> Bytes\fR
\fB                     when Message :: message(), Bytes :: [byte()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Encodes a message record to a list of bytes.


.RE
.B
\fBenc_message_only(Message) -> Bytes\fR
\fB                          when Message :: message(), Bytes :: [byte()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIMessage\fR is a record where the \fIdata\fR field is assumed to be encoded (a list of bytes). If there is a v1 or v2 message, the \fIdata\fR field is an encoded \fIPDU\fR, and if there is a v3 message, \fIdata\fR is an encoded and possibly encrypted \fIscopedPDU\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBenc_pdu(Pdu) -> Bytes when Pdu :: pdu(), Bytes :: [byte()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Encodes an SNMP Pdu into a list of bytes.


.RE
.B
\fBenc_scoped_pdu(ScopedPdu) -> Bytes\fR
\fB                        when\fR
\fB                            ScopedPdu :: scoped_pdu(), Bytes :: [byte()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Encodes an SNMP ScopedPdu into a list of bytes, which can be encrypted, and after encryption, encoded with a call to \fIenc_encrypted_scoped_pdu/1\fR; or it can be used as the \fIdata\fR field in a \fImessage\fR record, which then can be encoded with \fIenc_message_only/1\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBenc_usm_security_parameters(UsmSecParams) -> Bytes\fR
\fB                                     when\fR
\fB                                         UsmSecParams ::\fR
\fB                                             usm_security_parameters(),\fR
\fB                                         Bytes :: [byte()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Encodes SNMP UsmSecurityParameters into a list of bytes.


.RE
