.TH snmp_community_mib 3 "snmp 5.20.1" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
snmp_community_mib \- Instrumentation Functions for SNMP-COMMUNITY-MIB

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The module \fIsnmp_community_mib\fR implements the instrumentation functions for the SNMP-COMMUNITY-MIB, and functions for configuring the database.

.PP
The configuration files are described in the SNMP User's Manual.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBcontext_name() :: snmp_framework_mib:admin_string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
A human readable string.

.PP
\fISnmpAdminString\fR


.RE
.B
\fBindex() :: snmp_framework_mib:admin_string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fISnmpAdminString (SIZE(1..32))\fR


.RE
.B
\fBname() :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIOCTET STRING (SIZE(1..64))\fR


.RE
.B
\fBsecurity_name() :: snmp_framework_mib:admin_string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fISnmpAdminString\fR


.RE
.B
\fBtransport_tag() :: snmp_target_mib:tag_value().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fISnmpTagValue\fR


.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBadd_community(Idx, CommName, SecName, EngineId, CtxName,\fR
\fB                    TransportTag) ->\fR
\fB                       {ok, Key} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           Idx :: index(),\fR
\fB                           CommName :: name(),\fR
\fB                           SecName :: security_name(),\fR
\fB                           EngineId :: snmp_framework_mib:engine_id(),\fR
\fB                           CtxName :: context_name(),\fR
\fB                           TransportTag :: transport_tag(),\fR
\fB                           Key :: term(),\fR
\fB                           Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Adds a community to the agent config. Equivalent to one line in the \fIcommunity.conf\fR file.

.PP
With the \fIEngineId\fR argument it is possible to override the configured engine-id (SNMP-FRAMEWORK-MIB).


.RE
.B
\fBconfigure(ConfDir) -> snmp:void() when ConfDir :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is called from the supervisor at system start-up.

.PP
Inserts all data in the configuration files into the database and destroys all old rows with StorageType \fIvolatile\fR. The rows created from the configuration file will have StorageType \fInonVolatile\fR.

.PP
All \fIsnmp\fR counters are set to zero.

.PP
If an error is found in the configuration file, it is reported using the function \fIconfig_err/2\fR of the error, report module and the function fails with reason \fIconfiguration_error\fR.

.PP
\fIConfDir\fR is a string which points to the directory where the configuration files are found.

.PP
The configuration file read is: \fIcommunity.conf\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBdelete_community(Key) -> ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                          when Key :: term(), Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Delete a community from the agent config.


.RE
.B
\fBreconfigure(ConfDir) -> snmp:void() when ConfDir :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Inserts all data in the configuration files into the database and destroys all old data, including the rows with StorageType \fInonVolatile\fR. The rows created from the configuration file will have StorageType \fInonVolatile\fR.

.PP
Thus, the data in the SNMP-COMMUNITY-MIB, after this function has been called, is from the configuration files.

.PP
All \fIsnmp\fR counters are set to zero.

.PP
If an error is found in the configuration file, it is reported using the function \fIconfig_err/2\fR of the error report module, and the function fails with reason \fIconfiguration_error\fR.

.PP
\fIConfDir\fR is a string which points to the directory where the configuration files are found.

.PP
The configuration file read is: \fIcommunity.conf\fR.


.RE
