.TH snmpa_supervisor 3 "snmp 5.20.1" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
snmpa_supervisor \- A supervisor for the SNMP agent Processes

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This is the top supervisor for the agent part of the SNMP application. There is always one supervisor at each node with an SNMP agent (master agent or sub-agent).

.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBstart_master_sup(Opts) -> {ok, Pid} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                          when\fR
\fB                              Opts :: [Opt],\fR
\fB                              Opt ::\fR
\fB                                  {db_dir, string()} |\fR
\fB                                  {config, ConfOpts} |\fR
\fB                                  {atom(), term()},\fR
\fB                              ConfOpts :: [ConfOpt],\fR
\fB                              ConfOpt ::\fR
\fB                                  {dir, string()} | {atom(), term()},\fR
\fB                              Pid :: pid(),\fR
\fB                              Reason :: {already_started, Pid} | term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Starts a supervisor for the SNMP agent system. The supervisor starts all involved SNMP processes, including the master agent. Sub-agents should be started by calling \fIstart_subagent/3\fR.

.PP
\fIdb_dir\fR is mandatory.

.PP
\fIdir\fR in config is mandatory.

.PP
See snmp config for a description of the options.


.RE
.B
\fBstart_sub_agent(ParentAgent, Subtree, Mibs) ->\fR
\fB                         {ok, Pid} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             ParentAgent :: pid(),\fR
\fB                             Subtree :: snmp:oid(),\fR
\fB                             Mibs :: [MibName],\fR
\fB                             MibName :: string(),\fR
\fB                             Pid :: pid(),\fR
\fB                             Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Starts a sub-agent on the node where the function is called. The \fIsnmpa_supervisor\fR must be running.

.PP
If the supervisor is not running, the function fails with the reason \fIbadarg\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBstart_sub_sup(Opts) -> {ok, Pid} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           Opts :: [Opt],\fR
\fB                           Opt ::\fR
\fB                               {db_dir, snmp:dir()} | {atom(), term()},\fR
\fB                           Pid :: pid(),\fR
\fB                           Reason :: {already_started, Pid} | term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Starts a supervisor for the SNMP agent system without a master agent. The supervisor starts all involved SNMP agent processes, but no agent processes. Sub-agents should be started by calling \fIstart_sub_agent/3\fR.

.PP
\fIdb_dir\fR is mandatory.

.PP
See configuration parameters for a description of the options.


.RE
.B
\fBstop_sub_agent(SubAgentPid) -> ok | no_such_child\fR
\fB                        when SubAgentPid :: pid().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Stops the sub-agent on the node where the function is called. The \fIsnmpa_supervisor\fR must be running.

.PP
If the supervisor is not running, the function fails with the reason \fIbadarg\fR.


.RE
