.TH snmp_notification_mib 3 "snmp 5.20.1" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
snmp_notification_mib \- Instrumentation Functions for SNMP-NOTIFICATION-MIB

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The module \fIsnmp_notification_mib\fR implements the instrumentation functions for the SNMP-NOTIFICATION-MIB, and functions for configuring the database.

.PP
The configuration files are described in the SNMP User's Manual.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBnotify_name() :: snmp_framework_mib:admin_string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fISnmpAdminString (SIZE(1..32))\fR


.RE
.B
\fBnotify_tag() :: snmp_target_mib:tag_value().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBnotify_type() :: trap | inform.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBadd_notify(Name, Tag, Type) -> {ok, Key} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        Name :: notify_name(),\fR
\fB                        Tag :: notify_tag(),\fR
\fB                        Type :: notify_type(),\fR
\fB                        Key :: term(),\fR
\fB                        Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Adds a notify definition to the agent config. Equivalent to one line in the \fInotify.conf\fR file.


.RE
.B
\fBconfigure(ConfDir) -> snmp:void() when ConfDir :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is called from the supervisor at system start-up.

.PP
Inserts all data in the configuration files into the database and destroys all old rows with StorageType \fIvolatile\fR. The rows created from the configuration file will have StorageType \fInonVolatile\fR.

.PP
If an error is found in the configuration file, it is reported using the function \fIconfig_err/2\fR of the error report module, and the function fails with reason \fIconfiguration_error\fR.

.PP
\fIConfDir\fR is a string which points to the directory where the configuration files are found.

.PP
The configuration file read is: \fInotify.conf\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBdelete_notify(Key) -> ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                       when Key :: term(), Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Delete a notify definition from the agent config.


.RE
.B
\fBreconfigure(ConfDir) -> snmp:void() when ConfDir :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Inserts all data in the configuration files into the database and destroys all old data, including the rows with StorageType \fInonVolatile\fR. The rows created from the configuration file will have StorageType \fInonVolatile\fR.

.PP
Thus, the data in the SNMP-NOTIFICATION-MIB, after this function has been called, is from the configuration files.

.PP
If an error is found in the configuration file, it is reported using the function \fIconfig_err/2\fR of the error report module, and the function fails with reason \fIconfiguration_error\fR.

.PP
\fIConfDir\fR is a string which points to the directory where the configuration files are found.

.PP
The configuration file read is: \fInotify.conf\fR.


.RE
