.TH snmpa_discovery_handler 3 "snmp 5.20.1" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
snmpa_discovery_handler \- Behaviour module for the SNMP agent discovery handler.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This module defines the behaviour of the agent discovery handler. A \fIsnmpa_discovery_handler\fR compliant module must export the following functions:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIstage1_finish/3\fR

.RE

.PP
The semantics of them and their exact signatures are explained below.

.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.SH CALLBACKS
.LP
.B
\fBstage1_finish(TargetName, ManagerEngineID, ExtraInfo)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is called at the end of stage 1 of the discovery process. It should return either the atom \fIignore\fR or \fI{ok, usm_entry() | [usm_entry()]}\fR. See usm_entry() and usm_entry/1,3 for more info.

.PP
If the function returns \fIignore\fR, then it is assumed that either:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
The caller (of the discovery function) will make the needed updates later.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
The callback function itself did the updates.

.RE

.PP
In either case, the agent will do nothing, but return the retrieved ManagerEngineID (see \fIsnmpa:discovery/6\fR for more info) and possible continue with stage 2 of the discovery process.

.PP
The \fIExtraInfo\fR argument is passed on from the \fIsnmpa:discovery/6\fR function.

.PP
This function may return an updated \fINewExtraInfo\fR that will be used in subsequent calls to the callback functions. Intended for future use.

.PP
The purpose of this function is to generate the usm- related security data needed for usm processing in the agent. Specifically, updating the usmUserTable.

.PP
When an \fIusm_entry()\fR tuple (or a list of such tuples) is returned, this data is then added to the \fIusmUserTable\fR by the (master-) agent.

.PP
When an \fIusm_entry()\fR tuple (or a list of such tuples) is returned, this data is then added to the \fIusmUserTable\fR by the (master-) agent.

.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRNote that the function does not check if this entry already exists.


.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRNote that this function is executed in the context of the master-agent process.



.RE
