.TH snmp_user_based_sm_mib 3 "snmp 5.20.1" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
snmp_user_based_sm_mib \- Instrumentation Functions for SNMP-USER-BASED-SM-MIB

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The module \fIsnmp_user_based_sm_mib\fR implements the instrumentation functions for the SNMP-USER-BASED-SM-MIB, and functions for configuring the database.

.PP
Note that authentication has been extended according to RFC 7860 (SNMP-USM-HMAC-SHA2-MIB).

.PP
The configuration files are described in the SNMP User's Manual.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBauth_key() :: snmp:octet_string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The size/length of the list depends on auth protocol:

.IP
.nf
               Size any for usmNoAuthProtocol
               Size 16  for usmHMACMD5AuthProtocol
               Size 20  for usmHMACSHAAuthProtocol
               Size 28  for usmHMAC128SHA224AuthProtocol
               Size 32  for usmHMAC192SHA256AuthProtocol
               Size 48  for usmHMAC256SHA384AuthProtocol
	       Size 64  for usmHMAC384SHA512AuthProtocol

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBauth_protocol() ::\fR
\fB          usmNoAuthProtocol | usmHMACMD5AuthProtocol |\fR
\fB          usmHMACSHAAuthProtocol | usmHMAC128SHA224AuthProtocol |\fR
\fB          usmHMAC192SH256AuthProtocol | usmHMAC256SHA384AuthProtocol |\fR
\fB          usmHMAC384SHA512AuthProtocol.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fBNOTE: \fR"An indication of whether messages sent on behalf of this user to/from the SNMP engine identified by usmUserEngineID, can be authenticated, and if so, the type of authentication protocol which is used."


.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRSome of the entries of this type are actually defined by the SNMP-USM-HMAC-SHA2-MIB mib.


.PP
\fIAutonomousType\fR


.RE
.B
\fBclone_from() :: zeroDotZero | snmp:row_pointer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fBNOTE: \fR"A pointer to another conceptual row in this usmUserTable. The user in this other conceptual row is called the clone-from user."


.PP
\fIRowPointer\fR


.RE
.B
\fBkey_change() :: snmp:octet_string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fBNOTE: \fR"Every definition of an object with this syntax must identify a protocol P, a secret key K, and a hash algorithm H that produces output of L octets."


.PP
\fIOCTET STRING\fR


.RE
.B
\fBname() :: snmp_framework_mib:admin_string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fBNOTE: \fR"A human readable string representing the name of the user. This is the (User-based Security) Model dependent security ID."


.PP
\fISnmpAdminString (SIZE(1..32))\fR


.RE
.B
\fBpriv_key() :: snmp:octet_string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The size/length of the list depends on priv protocol:

.IP
.nf
	       Size any for usmNoPrivProtocol
               Size 16  for usmDESPrivProtocol
               Size 16  for usmAesCfb128Protocol

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBpriv_protocol() ::\fR
\fB          usmNoPrivProtocol | usmDESPrivProtocol | usmAesCfb128Protocol.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fBNOTE: \fR"An indication of whether messages sent on behalf of this user to/from the SNMP engine identified by usmUserEngineID, can be protected from disclosure, and if so, the type of privacy protocol which is used."


.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRSome of the entries of this tyype are actually defined by the SNMP-USM-AES-MIB mib.


.PP
\fIAutonomousType\fR


.RE
.B
\fBpublic() :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fIOCTET STRING (SIZE(0..32))\fR


.RE
.B
\fBusm_entry() ::\fR
\fB          {EngineID :: snmp_framework_mib:engine_id(),\fR
\fB           UserName :: name(),\fR
\fB           SecName :: snmp_framework_mib:admin_string(),\fR
\fB           Clone :: clone_from(),\fR
\fB           AuthP :: auth_protocol(),\fR
\fB           AuthKeyC :: key_change(),\fR
\fB           OwnAuthKeyC :: key_change(),\fR
\fB           PrivP :: priv_protocol(),\fR
\fB           PrivKeyC :: key_change(),\fR
\fB           OwnPrivKeyC :: key_change(),\fR
\fB           Public :: public(),\fR
\fB           AuthKey :: auth_key(),\fR
\fB           PrivKey :: priv_key()}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBadd_user(EngineID, Name, SecName, Clone, AuthP, AuthKeyC,\fR
\fB               OwnAuthKeyC, PrivP, PrivKeyC, OwnPrivKeyC, Public,\fR
\fB               AuthKey, PrivKey) ->\fR
\fB                  {ok, Key} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      EngineID :: snmp_framework_mib:engine_id(),\fR
\fB                      Name :: name(),\fR
\fB                      SecName :: snmp_framework_mib:admin_string(),\fR
\fB                      Clone :: clone_from(),\fR
\fB                      AuthP :: auth_protocol(),\fR
\fB                      AuthKeyC :: key_change(),\fR
\fB                      OwnAuthKeyC :: key_change(),\fR
\fB                      PrivP :: priv_protocol(),\fR
\fB                      PrivKeyC :: key_change(),\fR
\fB                      OwnPrivKeyC :: key_change(),\fR
\fB                      Public :: public(),\fR
\fB                      AuthKey :: auth_key(),\fR
\fB                      PrivKey :: priv_key(),\fR
\fB                      Key :: term(),\fR
\fB                      Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Adds a USM security data (user) to the agent config. Equivalent to one line in the \fIusm.conf\fR file.


.RE
.B
\fBconfigure(ConfDir) -> snmp:void() when ConfDir :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is called from the supervisor at system start-up.

.PP
Inserts all data in the configuration files into the database and destroys all old rows with StorageType \fIvolatile\fR. The rows created from the configuration file will have StorageType \fInonVolatile\fR.

.PP
All \fIsnmp\fR counters are set to zero.

.PP
If an error is found in the configuration file, it is reported using the function \fIconfig_err/2\fR of the error report module, and the function fails with the reason \fIconfiguration_error\fR.

.PP
\fIConfDir\fR is a string which points to the directory where the configuration files are found.

.PP
The configuration file read is: \fIusm.conf\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBdelete_user(Key) -> ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                     when Key :: term(), Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Delete a USM security data (user) from the agent config.


.RE
.B
\fBreconfigure(ConfDir) -> snmp:void() when ConfDir :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Inserts all data in the configuration files into the database and destroys all old data, including the rows with StorageType \fInonVolatile\fR. The rows created from the configuration file will have StorageType \fInonVolatile\fR.

.PP
Thus, the data in the SNMP-USER-BASED-SM-MIB, after this function has been called, is the data from the configuration files.

.PP
All \fIsnmp\fR counters are set to zero.

.PP
If an error is found in the configuration file, it is reported using the function \fIconfig_err/2\fR of the error report module, and the function fails with the reason \fIconfiguration_error\fR.

.PP
\fIConfDir\fR is a string which points to the directory where the configuration files are found.

.PP
The configuration file read is: \fIusm.conf\fR.


.RE
