.TH snmp 3 "snmp 5.20.1" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
snmp \- Interface functions to the SNMP toolkit

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The module \fIsnmp\fR contains interface functions to the SNMP toolkit.

.PP
\fBSee Also\fR

.PP
calendar(3)

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBalgorithm() :: md5 | sha | sha224 | sha256 | sha384 | sha512.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBasn1_type() :: #asn1_type{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBatl_type() :: read | write | read_write.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBbits() :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The Erlang representation of the SNMP BITS (pseudo) data type.


.RE
.B
\fBcolumn() :: pos_integer().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBcommunity() :: snmp_community_mib:name().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBcontext_name() :: snmp_community_mib:context_name().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBdate_and_time_validator() ::\fR
\fB          fun((Kind :: date_and_time_validator_kind(), Data :: term()) ->\fR
\fB                  boolean()).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The input to the validator fun looks like this:

.IP
.nf
	  Kind             Data
	  --------------   ----------------------
	  year             {Year1, Year2}
	  month            Month
	  day              Day
	  hour             Hour
	  minute           Minute
	  seconds          Seconds
	  deci_seconds     DeciSeconds
	  diff             [Sign, Hour, Minute]
	  valid_date       {Year, Month, Day}

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBdate_and_time_validator_kind() ::\fR
\fB          year | month | day | hour | minute | seconds | deci_seconds |\fR
\fB          diff | valid_date.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBdir() :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
A string, that is a file path to a directory.


.RE
.B
\fBengine_id() :: snmp_framework_mib:engine_id().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBerror_index() :: non_neg_integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fI0\fR is used when error status is \fInoError\fR and when error status is an actual error; error index is \fIpos_integer/0\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBerror_status() :: noError | atom().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
We should really specify all of these, but they are so numerous... Also, normally all you need to know is that \fI'noError'\fR is ok and everything else is an error.


.RE
.B
\fBivarbind() :: #ivarbind{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBlog_size() ::\fR
\fB          infinity |\fR
\fB          pos_integer() |\fR
\fB          {MaxNoBytes :: pos_integer(), MaxNoFiles :: pos_integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This is basically a copy of the dlog_size().


.RE
.B
\fBlog_time() ::\fR
\fB          calendar:datetime() |\fR
\fB          {local_time, calendar:datetime()} |\fR
\fB          {universal_time, calendar:datetime()}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBme() :: #me{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBmib() :: #mib{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBmib_name() :: string().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBmms() :: snmp_framework_mib:max_message_size().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBnotification() :: #notification{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBoctet() :: 0..255.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBoctet_string() :: [octet()].\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBoid() :: [non_neg_integer()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Represent an ASN.1 OBJECT IDENTIFIER.


.RE
.B
\fBpdu() :: #pdu{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBpdu_type() :: snmp_pdus:pdu_type().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBrfc1903_date_and_time() :: octet_string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The data type DateAndTime, an OCTET STRING, as specified in RFC1903.


.RE
.B
\fBrow_index() :: oid().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Denotes the last part of the OID which specifies the index of the row in the table (see RFC1212, 4.1.6 for more information about INDEX).


.RE
.B
\fBrow_pointer() :: oid().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fBNOTE: \fR"Represents a pointer to a conceptual row. The value is the name of the instance of the first accessible columnar object in the conceptual row."


.PP
\fIOBJECT IDENTIFIER\fR

.PP
Defined by SNMPv2-TC.


.RE
.B
\fBsec_level() :: snmp_framework_mib:security_level().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsec_model() :: snmp_framework_mib:security_model().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsec_name() :: snmp_framework_mib:admin_string().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsnmp_timer() :: #snmp_incr_timer{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBtable_info() :: #table_info{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBtaddress() :: snmpa_conf:transportAddress().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBtdomain() :: transportDomainUdpIpv4 | transportDomainUdpIpv6.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBtime_interval() :: 0..2147483647.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
\fBNOTE: \fR"A period of time, measured in units of 0.01 seconds."


.PP
\fIINTEGER (0..2147483647)\fR

.PP
Defined by SNMPv2-TC.


.RE
.B
\fBtrap() :: #trap{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBtrappdu() :: #trappdu{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBusm_auth_key() :: snmp_user_based_sm_mib:auth_key().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBusm_auth_protocol() :: snmp_user_based_sm_mib:auth_protocol().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBusm_name() :: snmp_user_based_sm_mib:name().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBusm_priv_key() :: snmp_user_based_sm_mib:priv_key().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBusm_priv_protocol() :: snmp_user_based_sm_mib:priv_protocol().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBvarbind() :: #varbind{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBvariable_info() :: #variable_info{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBverbosity() :: silence | info | log | debug | trace.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
For the lowest verbosity \fIsilence\fR, nothing is printed. The higher the verbosity, the more is printed.


.RE
.B
\fBversion() :: v1 | v2 | v3.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBvoid() :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The type is used when a functions return is to be ignored.


.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBbits_to_octet_string(B) -> octet_string() when B :: bits().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Utility function for converting a value of type \fIBITS\fR to \fIOCTET-STRING\fR, according to RFC1906, section 8.


.RE
.B
\fBchange_log_size(LogName, NewSize) -> ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             LogName :: string(),\fR
\fB                             NewSize :: log_size(),\fR
\fB                             Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Changes the log size of the Audit Trail Log. The application must be configured to use the audit trail log function. Please refer to disk_log(3) in Kernel Reference Manual for a description of how to change the log size.

.PP
The change is permanent, as long as the log is not deleted. That means, the log size is remembered across reboots.


.RE
.B
\fBconfig() -> ok | {error, Reason} when Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
A simple interactive configuration tool. Simple configuration files can be generated, but more complex configurations still have to be edited manually.

.PP
The tool is a textual based tool that asks some questions and generates \fIsys.config\fR and \fI*.conf\fR files.

.PP
\fINote\fR that if the application shall support version 3, then the crypto app must be started before running this function (password generation).

.PP
\fINote\fR also that some of the configuration files for the agent and manager share the same names. This means that they have to be stored in \fIdifferent\fR directories!


.RE
.B
\fBdate_and_time() -> DateAndTime\fR
\fB                       when DateAndTime :: rfc1903_date_and_time().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns current date and time as the data type DateAndTime, as specified in RFC1903. This is an OCTET STRING.


.RE
.B
\fBdate_and_time_to_string(DAT, Validate) -> string()\fR
\fB                                 when\fR
\fB                                     DAT :: rfc1903_date_and_time(),\fR
\fB                                     Validate ::\fR
\fB                                         date_and_time_validator().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Converts a DateAndTime list to a printable string, according to the DISPLAY-HINT definition in RFC2579.

.PP
The validation fun, \fIValidate\fR, allows for a more "flexible" validation of the \fIDateAndTime\fR argument. Whenever the data is found to not follow RFC2579, the fun is called to allow a more "lax" validation. See the \fIvalidate_date_and_time/2\fR function for more info on the \fIValidate\fR fun.


.RE
.B
\fBdate_and_time_to_string2(DAT) -> string()\fR
\fB                                  when DAT :: rfc1903_date_and_time().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Converts a DateAndTime list to a printable string, according to the DISPLAY-HINT definition in RFC2579, with the extension that it also allows the values "hours from UTC" = 14 together with "minutes from UTC" = 0.


.RE
.B
\fBdate_and_time_to_universal_time_dst(DAT) -> UTCs\fR
\fB                                             when\fR
\fB                                                 DAT ::\fR
\fB                                                     rfc1903_date_and_time(),\fR
\fB                                                 UTCs ::\fR
\fB                                                     [calendar:datetime1970()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Converts a DateAndTime list to a list of possible universal time(s). The universal time value on the same format as defined in calendar(3).


.RE
.B
\fBdisable_trace() -> void().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Stop the tracer.


.RE
.B
\fBenable_trace() -> void().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Starts a dbg tracer that prints trace events to stdout (using plain io:format after a minor formatting).


.RE
.B
\fBlocal_time_to_date_and_time_dst(Local) -> DATs\fR
\fB                                         when\fR
\fB                                             Local ::\fR
\fB                                                 calendar:datetime1970(),\fR
\fB                                             DATs ::\fR
\fB                                                 [rfc1903_date_and_time()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Converts a local time value to a list of possible DateAndTime list(s). The local time value on the same format as defined in calendar(3).


.RE
.B
\fBlog_to_io(LogDir, Mibs, LogName, LogFile, Block, Start, Stop) ->\fR
\fB                   ok | {ok, Cnt} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       LogDir :: string(),\fR
\fB                       Mibs :: [mib_name()],\fR
\fB                       LogName :: string(),\fR
\fB                       LogFile :: string(),\fR
\fB                       Block :: boolean(),\fR
\fB                       Start :: null | log_time(),\fR
\fB                       Stop :: null | log_time(),\fR
\fB                       Cnt :: {NumOK, NumERR},\fR
\fB                       NumOK :: non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB                       NumERR :: pos_integer(),\fR
\fB                       Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Converts an Audit Trail Log to a readable format and prints it on stdio. See \fIlog_to_txt/8\fR for more info.


.RE
.B
\fBlog_to_txt(LogDir, Mibs, OutFile, LogName, LogFile, Block, Start,\fR
\fB                 Stop) ->\fR
\fB                    ok | {ok, Cnt} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        LogDir :: string(),\fR
\fB                        Mibs :: [mib_name()],\fR
\fB                        OutFile :: string(),\fR
\fB                        LogName :: string(),\fR
\fB                        LogFile :: string(),\fR
\fB                        Block :: boolean(),\fR
\fB                        Start :: null | log_time(),\fR
\fB                        Stop :: null | log_time(),\fR
\fB                        Cnt :: {NumOK, NumERR},\fR
\fB                        NumOK :: non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB                        NumERR :: pos_integer(),\fR
\fB                        Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Converts an Audit Trail Log to a readable text file, where each item has a trailing TAB character, and any TAB character in the body of an item has been replaced by ESC TAB.

.PP
The function can be used on a running system, or by copying the entire log directory and calling this function. SNMP must be running in order to provide MIB information.

.PP
\fILogDir\fR is the name of the directory where the audit trail log is stored. \fIMibs\fR is a list of Mibs to be used. The function uses the information in the Mibs to convert for example object identifiers to their symbolic name. \fIOutFile\fR is the name of the generated text-file. \fILogName\fR is the name of the log, \fILogFile\fR is the name of the log file. \fIStart\fR is the start (first) date and time from which log events will be converted and \fIStop\fR is the stop (last) date and time to which log events will be converted. The \fIBlock\fR argument indicates if the log should be blocked during conversion. This could be useful when converting large logs (when otherwise the log could wrap during conversion). Defaults to \fItrue\fR.

.PP
The format of an audit trail log text item is as follows:

.PP
\fITag Addr - Community [TimeStamp] Vsn\fR  \fIPDU\fR

.PP
where \fITag\fR is \fIrequest\fR, \fIresponse\fR, \fIreport\fR, \fItrap\fR or \fIinform\fR; Addr is \fIIP:Port\fR (or comma space separated list of such); \fICommunity\fR is the community parameter (SNMP version v1 and v2), or \fISecLevel:"AuthEngineID":"UserName"\fR (SNMP v3); \fITimeStamp\fR is a date and time stamp, and \fIVsn\fR is the SNMP version. \fIPDU\fR is a textual version of the protocol data unit. There is a new line between \fIVsn\fR and \fIPDU\fR.

.PP
If the entire log is successfully converted, the function will return \fIok\fR. If one of more entries fail to convert, the function will instead return \fI{ok, {NumOK, NumERR}}\fR, where the counters indicate how many valid and erroneous entries where found. If instead \fI{error, Reason}\fR is returned, the conversion encountered a fatal error and where either never done of aborted midway.


.RE
.B
\fBoctet_string_to_bits(S) -> bits() when S :: octet_string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Utility function for converting a value of type \fIOCTET-STRING\fR to \fIBITS\fR, according to RFC1906, section 8.


.RE
.B
\fBpasswd2localized_key(Algorithm, Passwd, EngineID) -> Key\fR
\fB                              when\fR
\fB                                  Algorithm :: algorithm(),\fR
\fB                                  Passwd :: string(),\fR
\fB                                  EngineID :: string(),\fR
\fB                                  Key :: list().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Generates a key that can be used as an authentication or privacy key using MD5, SHA, SHA224, SHA256, SHA384 or SHA512. The key is localized for EngineID.


.RE
.B
\fBprint_version_info(Prefix) -> void()\fR
\fB                            when Prefix :: string() | non_neg_integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Utility function(s) to produce a formatted printout of the versions info generated by the \fIversions1\fR function

.PP
This is the same as doing, e.g.:

.IP
.nf
           {ok, V} = snmp:versions1(),
           snmp:print_versions(V).

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBprint_versions(Prefix, Versions) -> void()\fR
\fB                        when\fR
\fB                            Prefix :: string() | non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB                            Versions :: [VersionInfo],\fR
\fB                            VersionInfo :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Utility function to produce a formatted printout of the versions info generated by the \fIversions1\fR and \fIversions2\fR functions

.PP
Example:

.IP
.nf
           {ok, V} = snmp:versions1(),
           snmp:print_versions(V).

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBread_mib(FileName) -> {ok, Mib} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      FileName :: string(),\fR
\fB                      Mib :: mib(),\fR
\fB                      Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Read a compiled mib.


.RE
.B
\fBreset_trace(Targets) -> void()\fR
\fB                     when Targets :: module() | [module()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is used to reset (disable) trace for the given module(s).


.RE
.B
\fBset_trace(Targets) -> void()\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       Targets ::\fR
\fB                           module() |\fR
\fB                           [module() | {module(), [TargetOpt]}],\fR
\fB                       TargetOpt ::\fR
\fB                           {return_trace, boolean()} | {scope, Scope},\fR
\fB                       Scope ::\fR
\fB                           all_functions | exported_functions |\fR
\fB                           FunctionName |\fR
\fB                           {FunctionName, FunctionArity},\fR
\fB                       FunctionName :: atom(),\fR
\fB                       FunctionArity :: non_neg_integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is used to set up default trace on function(s) for the given module or modules. The scope of the trace will be all \fIexported\fR functions (both the call info and the return value). Timestamp info will also be included.


.RE
.B
\fBset_trace(Targets, TraceOpts) -> void()\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       Targets ::\fR
\fB                           module() |\fR
\fB                           [module() | {module(), [TargetOpt]}],\fR
\fB                       TargetOpt ::\fR
\fB                           {return_trace, boolean()} | {scope, Scope},\fR
\fB                       Scope ::\fR
\fB                           all_functions | exported_functions |\fR
\fB                           FunctionName |\fR
\fB                           {FunctionName, FunctionArity},\fR
\fB                       FunctionName :: atom(),\fR
\fB                       FunctionArity :: non_neg_integer(),\fR
\fB                       TraceOpts :: disable | [TraceOpt],\fR
\fB                       TraceOpt :: {timestamp, boolean()} | TargetOpt.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is used to set up trace on function(s) for the given module or modules.

.PP
The example below sets up trace on the exported functions (default) of module \fIsnmp_generic\fR and all functions of module \fIsnmp_generic_mnesia\fR. With return values (which is default) and timestamps in both cases (which is also default):

.IP
.nf
	  snmp:enable_trace(),
	  snmp:set_trace([snmp_generic,
                          {snmp_generic_mnesia, [{scope, all_functions}]}]),
	  .
	  .
	  .
          snmp:set_trace(snmp_generic, disable),
	  .
	  .
	  .
	  snmp:disable_trace(),

.fi


.RE
.B
\fBstart(Type) -> ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB               when\fR
\fB                   Type ::\fR
\fB                       p | permanent | tr | transient | te | temporary,\fR
\fB                   Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Starts the SNMP application.

.PP
See \fIapplication\fR for more info.


.RE
.B
\fBstart_agent(Type) -> ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         Type :: application:start_type(),\fR
\fB                         Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The SNMP application consists of several entities, of which the agent is one. This function starts the agent entity of the application.

.PP
Note that the only way to actually start the agent in this way is to add the agent related config after starting the application (e.g it cannot be part of the normal application config; sys.config). This is done by calling: \fIapplication:set_env(snmp, agent, Conf)\fR.

.PP
The default value for \fIType\fR is \fInormal\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBstart_manager(Type) -> ok | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           Type :: application:start_type(),\fR
\fB                           Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The SNMP application consists of several entities, of which the manager is one. This function starts the manager entity of the application.

.PP
Note that the only way to actually start the manager in this way is to add the manager related config after starting the application (e.g it cannot be part of the normal application config; sys.config). This is done by calling: \fIapplication:set_env(snmp, manager, Conf)\fR.

.PP
The default value for \fIType\fR is \fInormal\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBstop() -> ok | {error, Reason} when Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Stops the SNMP application.

.PP
See \fIapplication\fR for more info.

.PP
This function has existed for long time, but not had a proper since tag, so to simplify we set the since tag to when it was documented.


.RE
.B
\fBuniversal_time_to_date_and_time(UTC) -> DateAndTime\fR
\fB                                         when\fR
\fB                                             UTC :: calendar:datetime(),\fR
\fB                                             DateAndTime ::\fR
\fB                                                 rfc1903_date_and_time().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Converts a universal time value to a DateAndTime list. The universal time value on the same format as defined in calendar(3).


.RE
.B
\fBvalidate_date_and_time(DateAndTime, Validate) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                                when\fR
\fB                                    DateAndTime ::\fR
\fB                                        rfc1903_date_and_time(),\fR
\fB                                    Validate ::\fR
\fB                                        date_and_time_validator().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Checks if \fIDateAndTime\fR is a correct DateAndTime value, as specified in RFC2579. This function can be used in instrumentation functions to validate a DateAndTime value.

.PP
The validation fun, \fIValidate\fR, allows for a more "flexible" validation of the \fIDateAndTime\fR argument. Whenever the data is found to not follow RFC2579, the fun is called to allow a more "lax" validation.


.RE
.B
\fBversions2() -> {ok, VersionsInfo} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       VersionsInfo :: [VersionInfo],\fR
\fB                       VersionInfo :: term(),\fR
\fB                       Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Utility functions used to retrieve some system and application info.

.PP
The difference between the two functions is in how they get the modules to check. \fIversions1\fR uses the app-file and \fIversions2\fR uses the function \fIapplication:get_key\fR.


.RE
