.TH snmpm_network_interface 3 "snmp 5.20.1" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
snmpm_network_interface \- Behaviour module for the SNMP manager network interface.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This module defines the behaviour of the manager network interface. A \fIsnmpm_network_interface\fR compliant module must export the following functions:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIstart_link/2\fR

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIstop/1\fR

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIsend_pdu/7\fR

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIinform_response/4\fR

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fInote_store/2\fR

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIinfo/1\fR

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIget_log_type/1\fR

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIset_log_type/2\fR

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIverbosity/2\fR

.RE

.PP
The semantics of them and their exact signatures are explained below.

.PP
Legacy API function \fIsend_pdu/7\fR that has got separate \fIIpAddr\fR and \fIPortNumber\fR arguments still works as before for backwards compatibility reasons.

.SH CALLBACKS
.LP
.B
\fBget_log_type(Pid)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The Audit Trail Log is managed by the network interface process. So, it is this process that has to return the actual log-type.


.RE
.B
\fBinfo(Pid)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The info returned is basically up to the implementer to decide. The implementation provided by this application provides info about memory allocation and various socket information.

.PP
The info returned by this function is returned together with other info collected by the manager when the \fIsnmpm:info()\fR function is called (tagged with the key \fInet_if\fR).


.RE
.B
\fBinform_response(Pid, Ref, Addr, Port)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Instruct the network interface process to send the response (acknowledgment) to an inform-request.

.PP
\fIRef\fR is something that can be used to identify the inform-request, e.g. request-id of the inform-request.

.PP
\fIAddr\fR and \fIPort\fR identifies the agent, from which the inform-request originated.


.RE
.B
\fBnote_store(Pid, NoteStore)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change the pid of the note-store process. This is used when the server restarts the \fInote-store\fR (e.g. after a crach).


.RE
.B
\fBsend_pdu(Pid, Pdu, Vsn, MsgData, Domain, Addr, ExtraInfo)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Request the network interface process (\fIPid\fR) to send this pdu (\fIPdu\fR).

.PP
\fIExtraInfo\fR is some opaque data that is passed to the \fInet-if\fR process. It originates from the \fIExtraInfo\fR parameter in the calls to the \fIsynchronous get-request\fR, \fIasynchronous get-request\fR, \fIsynchronous get-next-request\fR, \fIasynchronous get-next-request\fR, \fIsynchronous set-request\fR and \fIasynchronous set-request\fR functions. Whether the \fInet-if\fR process chooses to use this is implementation dependent. The \fInet-if\fR process included in this application ignores it.


.RE
.B
\fBset_log_type(Pid, NewType)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The Audit Trail Log is managed by the network interface process. So, it is this process that has to do the actual changing of the type.

.PP
See \fIsnmpm:set_log_type/1\fR for more info.


.RE
.B
\fBstart_link(Server, NoteStore)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Start-link the network interface process.

.PP
\fIServer\fR is the pid of the managing process.

.PP
\fINoteStore\fR is the pid of the \fInote-store\fR process.


.RE
.B
\fBstop(Pid)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Stop the network interface process.


.RE
.B
\fBverbosity(Pid, Verbosity)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Change the verbosity of the network interface process.


.RE
