.TH snmpm_mpd 3 "snmp 5.20.1" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
snmpm_mpd \- Message Processing and Dispatch module for the SNMP manager

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The module \fIsnmpm_mpd\fR implements the version independent Message Processing and Dispatch functionality in SNMP for the manager. It is supposed to be used from a Network Interface process (Definition of Manager Net if).

.PP
Legacy API function \fIprocess_msg/7\fR that has got separate \fIIpAddr\fR and \fIPortNumber\fR arguments still works as before for backwards compatibility reasons.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBlogger() ::\fR
\fB          fun((Data ::\fR
\fB                   binary() |\fR
\fB                   snmp_pdus:pdu() |\fR
\fB                   snmp_pdus:trappdu() |\fR
\fB                   snmp_pdus:message() |\fR
\fB                   {V3Hdr :: snmp_pdus:v3_hdr(),\fR
\fB                    ScopedPDUBytes :: binary()}) ->\fR
\fB                  snmp:void()).\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
A \fIfun\fR that handles audit trail logging.


.RE
.B
\fB-opaque mpd_state() \fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fB-opaque msg_data_acm() \fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Is an opaque data structure containing necessary security information for (incoming) v3 messages.


.RE
.B
\fB-opaque msg_data_cmy() \fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Is an opaque data structure containing necessary security information for v1 and v2 messages.


.RE
.B
\fB-opaque msg_data_cmyt() \fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Is an opaque data structure containing necessary security and transport information for v1 and v2 messages.


.RE
.B
\fB-opaque msg_data_v3() \fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Is an opaque data structure containing necessary security information for v3 messages.


.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBgenerate_msg(Vsn, NoteStore, Pdu, MsgData, Log) ->\fR
\fB                      {ok, Packet} | {discarded, Reason}\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          Vsn :: snmp_pdus:version(),\fR
\fB                          NoteStore :: pid(),\fR
\fB                          Pdu :: snmp_pdus:pdu(),\fR
\fB                          MsgData :: msg_data_cmy() | msg_data_v3(),\fR
\fB                          Log :: logger(),\fR
\fB                          Packet :: binary(),\fR
\fB                          Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Generates a possibly encrypted packet to be sent to the network.

.PP
\fINoteStore\fR is the \fIpid()\fR of the \fInote-store\fR process.

.PP
\fIMsgData\fR is the message specific data used in the SNMP message. In SNMPv1 and SNMPv2c, this message data is the community string. In SNMPv3, it is the context information.

.PP
\fILogger\fR is the function used for audit trail logging.


.RE
.B
\fBgenerate_response_msg(Vsn, Pdu, MsgData, Log) ->\fR
\fB                               {ok, Packet} |\fR
\fB                               {discarded, Reason} |\fR
\fB                               {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                               when\fR
\fB                                   Vsn :: snmp_pdus:version(),\fR
\fB                                   Pdu :: snmp_pdus:pdu(),\fR
\fB                                   MsgData ::\fR
\fB                                       msg_data_cmy() |\fR
\fB                                       msg_data_cmyt() |\fR
\fB                                       msg_data_v3(),\fR
\fB                                   Log :: logger(),\fR
\fB                                   Packet :: binary(),\fR
\fB                                   Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Generates a possibly encrypted response packet to be sent to the network.

.PP
\fIMsgData\fR is the message specific data used in the SNMP message. This value is received from the \fIprocess_msg/6\fR function.


.RE
.B
\fBinit(Vsns) -> MPDState\fR
\fB              when Vsns :: [snmp:version()], MPDState :: mpd_state().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function can be called from the \fInet-if\fR process at start-up. The options list defines which versions to use.

.PP
It also initializes some SNMP counters.


.RE
.B
\fBprocess_msg(Msg, Domain, Addr, State, NoteStore, Log) ->\fR
\fB                     {ok, Vsn, PduV2, PduMS, MsgDataV2} |\fR
\fB                     {ok, 'version-3', PduV3, PduMS, MsgDataV3} |\fR
\fB                     {discarded, Reason}\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         Msg :: binary(),\fR
\fB                         Domain :: snmpUDPDomain | snmp:tdomain(),\fR
\fB                         Addr :: {Ip, Port},\fR
\fB                         Ip :: inet:ip_address(),\fR
\fB                         Port :: inet:port_number(),\fR
\fB                         State :: mpd_state(),\fR
\fB                         NoteStore :: pid(),\fR
\fB                         Log :: logger(),\fR
\fB                         Vsn :: 'version-1' | 'version-2',\fR
\fB                         PduV2 :: snmp_pdus:pdu() | snmp_pdus:trappdu(),\fR
\fB                         PduV3 :: snmp_pdus:pdu(),\fR
\fB                         PduMS :: pos_integer(),\fR
\fB                         MsgDataV2 :: msg_data_cmyt(),\fR
\fB                         MsgDataV3 ::\fR
\fB                             ok |\fR
\fB                             {error, ReqId, ACM} |\fR
\fB                             undefined |\fR
\fB                             msg_data_acm(),\fR
\fB                         ReqId :: snmpm:request_id(),\fR
\fB                         ACM :: term(),\fR
\fB                         Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Processes an incoming message. Performs authentication and decryption as necessary. The return values should be passed the manager server.

.PP
\fINoteStore\fR is the \fIpid()\fR of the \fInote-store\fR process.

.PP
\fILogger\fR is the function used for audit trail logging.

.PP
In the case when the pdu type is \fIreport\fR, \fIMsgData\fR is either \fIok\fR or \fI{error, ReqId, Reason}\fR.


.RE
