.TH ssh_client_key_api 3 "ssh 5.5.1" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
ssh_client_key_api \- -behaviour(ssh_client_key_api).

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Behavior describing the API for public key handling of an SSH client. By implementing the callbacks defined in this behavior, the public key handling of an SSH client can be customized. By default the \fIssh\fR application implements this behavior with help of the standard OpenSSH files, see the ssh application manual.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBclient_key_cb_options(T) ::\fR
\fB          [{key_cb_private, [T]} | ssh:client_option()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Options provided to ssh:connect/3,4.

.PP
The option list given in the \fIkey_cb\fR option is available with the key \fIkey_cb_private\fR.


.RE
.SH CALLBACKS
.LP
.B
\fBadd_host_key(Host, PublicKey, Options)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is retired in favour for \fIModule:add_host_key/4\fR which is the preferred API function. The calling SSH application will still try the \fIadd_host_key/3\fR if the call to \fIadd_host_key/4\fR failed.

.PP
Adds a host key to the set of trusted host keys.


.RE
.B
\fBadd_host_key(Host, Port, PublicKey, Options)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Adds a host key to the set of trusted host keys.

.PP
This function is preferred to the old \fIModule:add_host_key/3\fR since it also uses the peer host port number and may return an error message.

.PP
The OTP/SSH application first calls this function in the callback module, and then the old \fIModule:add_host_key/3\fR for compatibility.


.RE
.B
\fBis_host_key(Key, Host, Algorithm, Options)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is retired in favour for \fIModule:is_host_key/5\fR which is the preferred API function. The calling SSH application will still try the \fIis_host_key/4\fR if the call to \fIis_host_key/5\fR failed.

.PP
Checks if a host key is trusted.


.RE
.B
\fBis_host_key(Key, Host, Port, Algorithm, Options)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Checks if a host key is trusted.

.PP
This function is preferred to the old \fIModule:is_host_key/4\fR since it also uses the peer host port number and may return an error message.

.PP
The OTP/SSH application first calls this function in the callback module, and then the old \fIModule:is_host_key/4\fR for compatibility.


.RE
.B
\fBsign(PubKeyBlob, SigData, Options)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sign the SigData with the \fIprivate\fR key corresponding to PubKeyBlob.


.RE
.B
\fBuser_key(Algorithm, Options)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Fetches the users \fIpublic key\fR matching the \fIAlgorithm\fR. Some key callback modules may return \fI{ssh2_pubkey, PubKeyBlob :: binary()}\fR.

.PP
\fBNOTE: \fRThe private key contains the public key.



.RE
