.TH ssh_sftpd 3 "ssh 5.5.1" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
ssh_sftpd \- Specifies the channel process to handle an SFTP subsystem.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Specifies a channel process to handle an SFTP subsystem.

.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBsubsystem_spec(Options) -> Spec\fR
\fB                        when\fR
\fB                            Options ::\fR
\fB                                [{cwd, string()} |\fR
\fB                                 {file_handler,\fR
\fB                                  CbMod | {CbMod, FileState}} |\fR
\fB                                 {max_files, integer()} |\fR
\fB                                 {max_handles, integer()} |\fR
\fB                                 {max_path, integer()} |\fR
\fB                                 {root, string()} |\fR
\fB                                 {sftpd_vsn, integer()}],\fR
\fB                            Spec :: {Name, {CbMod, Options}},\fR
\fB                            Name :: string(),\fR
\fB                            CbMod :: atom(),\fR
\fB                            FileState :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Is to be used together with \fIssh:daemon/[1,2,3]\fR

.PP
The \fIName\fR is \fI"sftp"\fR and \fICbMod\fR is the name of the Erlang module implementing the subsystem using the \fIssh_server_channel\fR (replaces ssh_daemon_channel) behaviour.

.PP
Options:

cwd
.RS 2
Sets the initial current working directory for the server.


.RE

file_handler
.RS 2
Determines which module to call for accessing the file server. The default value is 
\fIssh_sftpd_file\fR, which uses the \fIfile\fR and \fIfilelib\fR APIs to access the standard OTP file server. This option can be used to plug in other file servers.

.RE

max_files
.RS 2
The default value is 
\fI0\fR, which means that there is no upper limit. If supplied, the number of filenames returned to the SFTP client per \fIREADDIR\fR request is limited to at most the given value.

.RE

max_handles
.RS 2
The default value is 
\fI1000\fR. Positive integer value represents the maximum number of file handles allowed for a connection.
.PP
(Note: separate limitation might be also enforced by underlying operating system)


.RE

max_path
.RS 2
The default value is 
\fI4096\fR. Positive integer value represents the maximum path length which cannot be exceeded in data provided by the SFTP client. (Note: limitations might be also enforced by underlying operating system)

.RE

root
.RS 2
Sets the SFTP root directory. Must be an absolute path (e.g., 
\fI/tmp\fR). Then the user cannot see any files above this root. If, for example, the root directory is set to \fI/tmp\fR, then the user sees this directory as \fI/\fR. If the user then writes \fIcd /etc\fR, the user moves to \fI/tmp/etc\fR.
.PP
Note: This provides application-level isolation. For additional security, consider using OS-level chroot or similar mechanisms. See the SFTP Security section in the Hardening guide for deployment recommendations.


.RE

sftpd_vsn
.RS 2
Sets the SFTP version to use. Defaults to 5. Version 6 is under development and limited.


.RE


.RE
