.TH supervisor_bridge 3 "stdlib 7.3" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
supervisor_bridge \- Generic supervisor bridge behavior.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This behavior module provides a supervisor bridge, a process that connects a subsystem not designed according to the OTP design principles to a supervision tree. The supervisor bridge sits between a supervisor and the subsystem. It behaves like a real supervisor to its own supervisor, but has a different interface than a real supervisor to the subsystem. For more information, see Supervisor Behaviour in OTP Design Principles.

.PP
A supervisor bridge assumes the functions for starting and stopping the subsystem to be located in a callback module exporting a predefined set of functions.

.PP
The \fIsys\fR module can be used for debugging a supervisor bridge.

.PP
Unless otherwise stated, all functions in this module fail if the specified supervisor bridge does not exist or if bad arguments are specified.

.PP
\fBSee Also\fR

.PP
\fIsupervisor\fR, \fIsys\fR

.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBstart_link(Module, Args) -> Result\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        Module :: module(),\fR
\fB                        Args :: term(),\fR
\fB                        Result :: {ok, Pid} | ignore | {error, Error},\fR
\fB                        Error :: {already_started, Pid} | term(),\fR
\fB                        Pid :: pid().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Creates a nameless supervisor bridge process as part of a supervision tree.

.PP
Equivalent to \fIstart_link/3\fR except that the supervisor process is not \fIregistered\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBstart_link(SupBridgeName, Module, Args) -> Result\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        SupBridgeName ::\fR
\fB                            {local, Name} |\fR
\fB                            {global, GlobalName} |\fR
\fB                            {via, Module, ViaName},\fR
\fB                        Name :: atom(),\fR
\fB                        GlobalName :: term(),\fR
\fB                        ViaName :: term(),\fR
\fB                        Module :: module(),\fR
\fB                        Args :: term(),\fR
\fB                        Result :: {ok, Pid} | ignore | {error, Error},\fR
\fB                        Error :: {already_started, Pid} | term(),\fR
\fB                        Pid :: pid().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Creates a supervisor bridge process, linked to the calling process, which calls \fIModule:init/1\fR to start the subsystem.

.PP
To ensure a synchronized startup procedure, this function does not return until \fIModule:init/1\fR has returned.


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
If \fISupBridgeName={local,Name}\fR, the supervisor bridge is registered locally as \fIName\fR using \fIregister/2\fR.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
If \fISupBridgeName={global,GlobalName}\fR, the supervisor bridge is registered globally as \fIGlobalName\fR using \fIglobal:register_name/2\fR.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
If \fISupBridgeName={via,Module,ViaName}\fR, the supervisor bridge is registered as \fIViaName\fR using a registry represented by Module. The \fIModule\fR callback is to export functions \fIregister_name/2\fR, \fIunregister_name/1\fR, and \fIsend/2\fR, which are to behave like the corresponding functions in \fIglobal\fR. Thus, \fI{via,global,GlobalName}\fR is a valid reference.

.RE

.PP
\fIModule\fR is the name of the callback module.

.PP
\fIArgs\fR is an arbitrary term that is passed as the argument to \fIModule:init/1\fR.


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
If the supervisor bridge and the subsystem are successfully started, the function returns \fI{ok,Pid}\fR, where \fIPid\fR is is the pid of the supervisor bridge.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
If there already exists a process with the specified \fISupBridgeName\fR, the function returns \fI{error,{already_started,Pid}}\fR, where \fIPid\fR is the pid of that process.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
If \fIModule:init/1\fR returns \fIignore\fR, this function returns \fIignore\fR as well and the supervisor bridge terminates with reason \fInormal\fR.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
If \fIModule:init/1\fR fails or returns an error tuple or an incorrect value, this function returns \fI{error,Error}\fR, where \fIError\fR is a term with information about the error, and the supervisor bridge terminates with reason \fIError\fR.

.RE


.RE
.SH CALLBACKS
.LP
.B
\fBinit(Args)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Whenever a supervisor bridge is started using \fIstart_link/2,3\fR, this function is called by the new process to start the subsystem and initialize.

.PP
\fIArgs\fR is the \fIArgs\fR argument provided to the start function.

.PP
The function is to return \fI{ok,Pid,State}\fR, where \fIPid\fR is the pid of the main process in the subsystem and \fIState\fR is any term.

.PP
If later \fIPid\fR terminates with a reason \fIReason\fR, the supervisor bridge terminates with reason \fIReason\fR as well. If later the supervisor bridge is stopped by its supervisor with reason \fIReason\fR, it calls \fIModule:terminate(Reason,State)\fR to terminate.

.PP
If the initialization fails, the function is to return \fI{error,Error}\fR, where \fIError\fR is any term, or \fIignore\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBterminate(Reason, State)\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This function is called by the supervisor bridge when it is about to terminate. It is to be the opposite of \fIModule:init/1\fR and stop the subsystem and do any necessary cleaning up. The return value is ignored.

.PP
\fIReason\fR is \fIshutdown\fR if the supervisor bridge is terminated by its supervisor. If the supervisor bridge terminates because a linked process (apart from the main process of the subsystem) has terminated with reason \fITerm\fR, then \fIReason\fR becomes \fITerm\fR.

.PP
\fIState\fR is taken from the return value of \fIModule:init/1\fR.


.RE
