.TH tags 3 "tools 4.1.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
tags \- Generate Emacs TAGS file from Erlang source files

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A \fITAGS\fR file is used by Emacs to find function and variable definitions in any source file in large projects. This module can generate a \fITAGS\fR file from Erlang source files. It recognises functions, records, and macro definitions.

.SS "Options"

.PP
The functions in this module have an optional argument \fIOptions\fR. It is a list which can contain the following elements:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fI{outfile, NameOfTAGSFile}\fR Create a \fITAGS\fR file named \fINameOfTAGSFile\fR.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fI{outdir, NameOfDirectory}\fR Create a file named \fITAGS\fR in the directory \fINameOfDirectory\fR.

.RE

.PP
The default behaviour is to create a file named \fITAGS\fR in the current directory.

.SS "Examples"


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fItags:root([{outfile, "root.TAGS"}]).\fR

.PP
This command will create a file named \fIroot.TAGS\fR in the current directory. The file will contain references to all Erlang source files in the Erlang distribution.

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fItags:files(["foo.erl", "bar.erl", "baz.erl"], [{outdir, "../projectdir"}]).\fR

.PP
This command will create a file named \fITAGS\fR placed it in the directory \fI../projectdir\fR. The file contains information about the functions, records, and macro definitions of the three files.

.RE

.PP
\fBSee Also\fR


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
Richard M. Stallman. GNU Emacs Manual, chapter "Editing Programs", section "Tag Tables". Free Software Foundation, 1995.

.RE

.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
Anders Lindgren. The Erlang editing mode for Emacs. Ericsson, 1998.

.RE

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBoption() ::\fR
\fB          {outfile, NameOfTAGSFile :: file:filename()} |\fR
\fB          {outdir, NameOfDirectory :: file:filename()}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdir(Dir, Options) -> ok | error\fR
\fB             when Dir :: file:filename(), Options :: [option()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Create a \fITAGS\fR file for all files in directory \fIDir\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBdirs(DirList, Options) -> ok | error\fR
\fB              when DirList :: [file:filename()], Options :: [option()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Create a \fITAGS\fR file for all files in any directory in \fIDirList\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBfile(File, Options) -> ok | error\fR
\fB              when File :: file:filename(), Options :: [option()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Create a \fITAGS\fR file for the file \fIFile\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBfiles(FileList, Options) -> ok | error\fR
\fB               when FileList :: [file:filename()], Options :: [option()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Create a \fITAGS\fR file for the files in the list \fIFileList\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBroot(Options) -> ok | error when Options :: [option()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Create a \fITAGS\fR file covering all files in the Erlang distribution.


.RE
.B
\fBsubdir(Dir, Options) -> ok | error\fR
\fB                when Dir :: file:filename(), Options :: [option()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Descend recursively into the directory \fIDir\fR and create a \fITAGS\fR file based on all files found.


.RE
.B
\fBsubdirs(DirList, Options) -> ok | error\fR
\fB                 when\fR
\fB                     DirList :: [file:filename()], Options :: [option()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Descend recursively into the directories in \fIDirList\fR and create a \fITAGS\fR file based on all files found.


.RE
