.TH wxAuiTabArt 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxAuiTabArt \- Tab art provider defines all the drawing functions used by \fIwxAuiNotebook\fR.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This allows the \fIwxAuiNotebook\fR to have a pluggable look-and-feel.

.PP
By default, a \fIwxAuiNotebook\fR uses an instance of this class called \fIwxAuiDefaultTabArt\fR (not implemented in wx) which provides bitmap art and a colour scheme that is adapted to the major platforms' look. You can either derive from that class to alter its behaviour or write a completely new tab art class.

.PP
Another example of creating a new \fIwxAuiNotebook\fR tab bar is \fIwxAuiSimpleTabArt\fR.

.PP
Call \fIwxAuiNotebook:setArtProvider/2\fR to make use of this new tab art.

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxAuiTabArt

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxAuiTabArt() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBsetActiveColour(This, Colour) -> ok\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             This :: wxAuiTabArt(),\fR
\fB                             Colour :: wx:wx_colour().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the colour of the selected tab.

.PP
Since: 2.9.2


.RE
.B
\fBsetColour(This, Colour) -> ok\fR
\fB                   when This :: wxAuiTabArt(), Colour :: wx:wx_colour().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the colour of the inactive tabs.

.PP
Since: 2.9.2


.RE
.B
\fBsetFlags(This, Flags) -> ok\fR
\fB                  when This :: wxAuiTabArt(), Flags :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets flags.


.RE
.B
\fBsetMeasuringFont(This, Font) -> ok\fR
\fB                          when\fR
\fB                              This :: wxAuiTabArt(),\fR
\fB                              Font :: wxFont:wxFont().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the font used for calculating measurements.


.RE
.B
\fBsetNormalFont(This, Font) -> ok\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           This :: wxAuiTabArt(),\fR
\fB                           Font :: wxFont:wxFont().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the normal font for drawing labels.


.RE
.B
\fBsetSelectedFont(This, Font) -> ok\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             This :: wxAuiTabArt(),\fR
\fB                             Font :: wxFont:wxFont().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the font for drawing text for selected UI elements.


.RE
