.TH wxAuiManagerEvent 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxAuiManagerEvent \- Event used to indicate various actions taken with \fIwxAuiManager\fR.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
See \fIwxAuiManager\fR for available event types.

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxAuiManager\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxAuiPaneInfo\fR

.RE

.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxEvent\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxAuiManagerEvent

.SS "Events"

.PP
Use \fIwxEvtHandler:connect/3\fR with \fIwxAuiManagerEventType\fR to subscribe to events of this type.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxAuiManager() :: #wxAuiManager{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBwxAuiManagerEvent() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBwxAuiManagerEventType() ::\fR
\fB          aui_pane_button | aui_pane_close | aui_pane_maximize |\fR
\fB          aui_pane_restore | aui_pane_activated | aui_render |\fR
\fB          aui_find_manager.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBcanVeto(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxAuiManagerEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Return: true if this event can be vetoed.

.PP
See: \fIveto/2\fR


.RE
.B
\fBgetButton(This) -> integer() when This :: wxAuiManagerEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Return: The ID of the button that was clicked.


.RE
.B
\fBgetDC(This) -> wxDC:wxDC() when This :: wxAuiManagerEvent().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBgetManager(This) -> wxAuiManager:wxAuiManager()\fR
\fB                    when This :: wxAuiManagerEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Return: The \fIwxAuiManager\fR this event is associated with.


.RE
.B
\fBgetPane(This) -> wxAuiPaneInfo:wxAuiPaneInfo()\fR
\fB                 when This :: wxAuiManagerEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Return: The pane this event is associated with.


.RE
.B
\fBgetVeto(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxAuiManagerEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Return: true if this event was vetoed.

.PP
See: \fIveto/2\fR


.RE
.B
\fBsetButton(This, Button) -> ok\fR
\fB                   when This :: wxAuiManagerEvent(), Button :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the ID of the button clicked that triggered this event.


.RE
.B
\fBsetCanVeto(This, Can_veto) -> ok\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        This :: wxAuiManagerEvent(),\fR
\fB                        Can_veto :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets whether or not this event can be vetoed.


.RE
.B
\fBsetDC(This, Pdc) -> ok\fR
\fB               when This :: wxAuiManagerEvent(), Pdc :: wxDC:wxDC().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsetManager(This, Manager) -> ok\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        This :: wxAuiManagerEvent(),\fR
\fB                        Manager :: wxAuiManager:wxAuiManager().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the \fIwxAuiManager\fR this event is associated with.


.RE
.B
\fBsetPane(This, Pane) -> ok\fR
\fB                 when\fR
\fB                     This :: wxAuiManagerEvent(),\fR
\fB                     Pane :: wxAuiPaneInfo:wxAuiPaneInfo().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the pane this event is associated with.


.RE
.B
\fBveto(This, [Option]) -> ok\fR
\fB              when\fR
\fB                  This :: wxAuiManagerEvent(),\fR
\fB                  Option :: {veto, boolean()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Cancels the action indicated by this event if \fIcanVeto/1\fR is true.


.RE
