.TH wxBitmapDataObject 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxBitmapDataObject \- \fIwxBitmapDataObject\fR is a specialization of \fIwxDataObject\fR for bitmap data.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
It can be used without change to paste data into the \fIwxClipboard\fR or a \fIwxDropSource\fR (not implemented in wx). A user may wish to derive a new class from this class for providing a bitmap on-demand in order to minimize memory consumption when offering data in several formats, such as a bitmap and GIF.

.PP
This class may be used as is, but \fIgetBitmap/1\fR may be overridden to increase efficiency.

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
Overview dnd

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxDataObject\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxFileDataObject\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxTextDataObject\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxDataObject\fR

.RE

.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxDataObject\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxBitmapDataObject

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxBitmapDataObject() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxBitmapDataObject()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBgetBitmap(This) -> wxBitmap:wxBitmap()\fR
\fB                   when This :: wxBitmapDataObject().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the bitmap associated with the data object.

.PP
You may wish to override this method when offering data on-demand, but this is not required by wxWidgets' internals. Use this method to get data in bitmap form from the \fIwxClipboard\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBnew([Option]) -> wxBitmapDataObject()\fR
\fB             when Option :: {bitmap, wxBitmap:wxBitmap()};\fR
\fB         (Bitmap) -> wxBitmapDataObject()\fR
\fB             when Bitmap :: wxBitmap:wxBitmap().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructor, optionally passing a bitmap (otherwise use \fIsetBitmap/2\fR later).


.RE
.B
\fBsetBitmap(This, Bitmap) -> ok\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       This :: wxBitmapDataObject(),\fR
\fB                       Bitmap :: wxBitmap:wxBitmap().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the bitmap associated with the data object.

.PP
This method is called when the data object receives data. Usually there will be no reason to override this function.


.RE
