.TH wxCalendarDateAttr 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxCalendarDateAttr \- \fIwxCalendarDateAttr\fR is a custom attributes for a calendar date.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The objects of this class are used with \fIwxCalendarCtrl\fR.

.PP
See: \fIwxCalendarCtrl\fR

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxCalendarDateAttr

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxCalendarDateAttr() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxCalendarDateAttr()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBgetBackgroundColour(This) -> wx:wx_colour4()\fR
\fB                             when This :: wxCalendarDateAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the background colour set for the calendar date.


.RE
.B
\fBgetBorder(This) -> wx:wx_enum() when This :: wxCalendarDateAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the border set for the calendar date.


.RE
.B
\fBgetBorderColour(This) -> wx:wx_colour4()\fR
\fB                         when This :: wxCalendarDateAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the border colour set for the calendar date.


.RE
.B
\fBgetFont(This) -> wxFont:wxFont() when This :: wxCalendarDateAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the font set for the calendar date.


.RE
.B
\fBgetTextColour(This) -> wx:wx_colour4()\fR
\fB                       when This :: wxCalendarDateAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the text colour set for the calendar date.


.RE
.B
\fBhasBackgroundColour(This) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                             when This :: wxCalendarDateAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if a non-default text background colour is set.


.RE
.B
\fBhasBorder(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxCalendarDateAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if a non-default (i.e. any) border is set.


.RE
.B
\fBhasBorderColour(This) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                         when This :: wxCalendarDateAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if a non-default border colour is set.


.RE
.B
\fBhasFont(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxCalendarDateAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if a non-default font is set.


.RE
.B
\fBhasTextColour(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxCalendarDateAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if a non-default text foreground colour is set.


.RE
.B
\fBisHoliday(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxCalendarDateAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if this calendar day is displayed as a holiday.


.RE
.B
\fBnew(Border) -> wxCalendarDateAttr() when Border :: wx:wx_enum();\fR
\fB         ([Option]) -> wxCalendarDateAttr()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Option ::\fR
\fB                     {colText, wx:wx_colour()} |\fR
\fB                     {colBack, wx:wx_colour()} |\fR
\fB                     {colBorder, wx:wx_colour()} |\fR
\fB                     {font, wxFont:wxFont()} |\fR
\fB                     {border, wx:wx_enum()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructor for specifying all \fIwxCalendarDateAttr\fR properties.


.RE
.B
\fBnew(Border, [Option]) -> wxCalendarDateAttr()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Border :: wx:wx_enum(),\fR
\fB                 Option :: {colBorder, wx:wx_colour()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructor using default properties except the given border.


.RE
.B
\fBsetBackgroundColour(This, ColBack) -> ok\fR
\fB                             when\fR
\fB                                 This :: wxCalendarDateAttr(),\fR
\fB                                 ColBack :: wx:wx_colour().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the text background colour to use.


.RE
.B
\fBsetBorder(This, Border) -> ok\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       This :: wxCalendarDateAttr(),\fR
\fB                       Border :: wx:wx_enum().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the border to use.


.RE
.B
\fBsetBorderColour(This, Col) -> ok\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             This :: wxCalendarDateAttr(),\fR
\fB                             Col :: wx:wx_colour().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the border colour to use.


.RE
.B
\fBsetFont(This, Font) -> ok\fR
\fB                 when\fR
\fB                     This :: wxCalendarDateAttr(),\fR
\fB                     Font :: wxFont:wxFont().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the font to use.


.RE
.B
\fBsetHoliday(This, Holiday) -> ok\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        This :: wxCalendarDateAttr(),\fR
\fB                        Holiday :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
If \fIholiday\fR is true, this calendar day will be displayed as a holiday.


.RE
.B
\fBsetTextColour(This, ColText) -> ok\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           This :: wxCalendarDateAttr(),\fR
\fB                           ColText :: wx:wx_colour().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the text (foreground) colour to use.


.RE
