.TH wxColourData 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxColourData \- This class holds a variety of information related to colour dialogs.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwx_color()\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxColourDialog\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
Overview cmndlg

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxColourData

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxColourData() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxColourData()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBgetChooseFull(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxColourData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Under Windows, determines whether the Windows colour dialog will display the full dialog with custom colour selection controls.

.PP
Has no meaning under other platforms.

.PP
The default value is true.


.RE
.B
\fBgetColour(This) -> wx:wx_colour4() when This :: wxColourData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Gets the current colour associated with the colour dialog.

.PP
The default colour is black.


.RE
.B
\fBgetCustomColour(This, I) -> wx:wx_colour4()\fR
\fB                         when This :: wxColourData(), I :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns custom colours associated with the colour dialog.


.RE
.B
\fBnew() -> wxColourData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructor.

.PP
Initializes the custom colours to \fIwxNullColour\fR, the \fIdata\fR colour setting to black, and the \fIchoose\fR full setting to true.


.RE
.B
\fBsetChooseFull(This, Flag) -> ok\fR
\fB                       when This :: wxColourData(), Flag :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Under Windows, tells the Windows colour dialog to display the full dialog with custom colour selection controls.

.PP
Under other platforms, has no effect.

.PP
The default value is true.


.RE
.B
\fBsetColour(This, Colour) -> ok\fR
\fB                   when This :: wxColourData(), Colour :: wx:wx_colour().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the default colour for the colour dialog.

.PP
The default colour is black.


.RE
.B
\fBsetCustomColour(This, I, Colour) -> ok\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             This :: wxColourData(),\fR
\fB                             I :: integer(),\fR
\fB                             Colour :: wx:wx_colour().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets custom colours for the colour dialog.


.RE
