.TH wxCursor 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxCursor \- A cursor is a small bitmap usually used for denoting where the mouse pointer is, with a picture that might indicate the interpretation of a mouse click.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
As with icons, cursors in X and MS Windows are created in a different manner. Therefore, separate cursors will be created for the different environments. Platform-specific methods for creating a \fIwxCursor\fR object are catered for, and this is an occasion where conditional compilation will probably be required (see \fIwxIcon\fR for an example).

.PP
A single cursor object may be used in many windows (any subwindow type). The wxWidgets convention is to set the cursor for a window, as in X, rather than to set it globally as in MS Windows, although a global \fIwx_misc:setCursor/1\fR function is also available for MS Windows use.

.PP
Creating a Custom Cursor

.PP
The following is an example of creating a cursor from 32x32 bitmap data (down_bits) and a mask (down_mask) where 1 is black and 0 is white for the bits, and 1 is opaque and 0 is transparent for the mask. It works on Windows and GTK+.

.PP
Predefined objects (include wx.hrl):


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
?wxNullCursor

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
?wxSTANDARD_CURSOR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
?wxHOURGLASS_CURSOR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
?wxCROSS_CURSOR

.RE

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxBitmap\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxIcon\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxWindow:setCursor/2\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwx_misc:setCursor/1\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
?wxStockCursor

.RE

.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxBitmap\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxCursor

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxCursor() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxCursor()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBisOk(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxCursor().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if cursor data is present.


.RE
.B
\fBnew() -> wxCursor().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Default constructor.


.RE
.B
\fBnew(CursorName) -> wxCursor()\fR
\fB             when CursorName :: unicode:chardata();\fR
\fB         (Image) -> wxCursor()\fR
\fB             when Image :: wxImage:wxImage() | wxCursor:wxCursor();\fR
\fB         (CursorId) -> wxCursor() when CursorId :: wx:wx_enum().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructs a cursor using a cursor identifier.


.RE
.B
\fBnew(CursorName, [Option]) -> wxCursor()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 CursorName :: unicode:chardata(),\fR
\fB                 Option ::\fR
\fB                     {type, wx:wx_enum()} |\fR
\fB                     {hotSpotX, integer()} |\fR
\fB                     {hotSpotY, integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructs a cursor by passing a string resource name or filename.

.PP
The arguments \fIhotSpotX\fR and \fIhotSpotY\fR are only used when there's no hotspot info in the resource/image-file to load (e.g. when using \fIwxBITMAP_TYPE_ICO\fR under wxMSW or \fIwxBITMAP_TYPE_XPM\fR under wxGTK).


.RE
.B
\fBok(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxCursor().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Equivalent to: \fIisOk/1\fR


.RE
