.TH wxDropFilesEvent 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxDropFilesEvent \- This class is used for drop files events, that is, when files have been dropped onto the window.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The window must have previously been enabled for dropping by calling \fIwxWindow:dragAcceptFiles/2\fR.

.PP
Important note: this is a separate implementation to the more general drag and drop implementation documented in the overview_dnd. It uses the older, Windows message-based approach of dropping files.

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
Overview events

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxWindow:dragAcceptFiles/2\fR

.RE

.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxEvent\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxDropFilesEvent

.SS "Events"

.PP
Use \fIwxEvtHandler:connect/3\fR with \fIwxDropFilesEventType\fR to subscribe to events of this type.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxDropFiles() :: #wxDropFiles{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBwxDropFilesEvent() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBwxDropFilesEventType() :: drop_files.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBgetFiles(This) -> [unicode:charlist()]\fR
\fB                  when This :: wxDropFilesEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns an array of filenames.


.RE
.B
\fBgetNumberOfFiles(This) -> integer()\fR
\fB                          when This :: wxDropFilesEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the number of files dropped.


.RE
.B
\fBgetPosition(This) -> {X :: integer(), Y :: integer()}\fR
\fB                     when This :: wxDropFilesEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the position at which the files were dropped.

.PP
Returns an array of filenames.


.RE
