.TH wxFindReplaceData 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxFindReplaceData \- \fIwxFindReplaceData\fR holds the data for \fIwxFindReplaceDialog\fR.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
It is used to initialize the dialog with the default values and will keep the last values from the dialog when it is closed. It is also updated each time a \fIwxFindDialogEvent\fR (not implemented in wx) is generated so instead of using the \fIwxFindDialogEvent\fR (not implemented in wx) methods you can also directly query this object.

.PP
Note that all \fISetXXX()\fR methods may only be called before showing the dialog and calling them has no effect later.

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxFindReplaceData

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxFindReplaceData() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxFindReplaceData()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBgetFindString(This) -> unicode:charlist()\fR
\fB                       when This :: wxFindReplaceData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get the string to find.


.RE
.B
\fBgetFlags(This) -> integer() when This :: wxFindReplaceData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get the combination of \fIwxFindReplaceFlags\fR values.


.RE
.B
\fBgetReplaceString(This) -> unicode:charlist()\fR
\fB                          when This :: wxFindReplaceData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get the replacement string.


.RE
.B
\fBnew([Option]) -> wxFindReplaceData()\fR
\fB             when Option :: {flags, integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructor initializes the flags to default value (0).


.RE
.B
\fBsetFindString(This, Str) -> ok\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           This :: wxFindReplaceData(),\fR
\fB                           Str :: unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Set the string to find (used as initial value by the dialog).


.RE
.B
\fBsetFlags(This, Flags) -> ok\fR
\fB                  when This :: wxFindReplaceData(), Flags :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Set the flags to use to initialize the controls of the dialog.


.RE
.B
\fBsetReplaceString(This, Str) -> ok\fR
\fB                          when\fR
\fB                              This :: wxFindReplaceData(),\fR
\fB                              Str :: unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Set the replacement string (used as initial value by the dialog).


.RE
