.TH wxFontData 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxFontData \- This class holds a variety of information related to font dialogs.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
Overview cmndlg

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxFont\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxFontDialog\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxFontData

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxFontData() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxFontData()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBenableEffects(This, Enable) -> ok\fR
\fB                       when This :: wxFontData(), Enable :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Enables or disables "effects" under Windows or generic only.

.PP
This refers to the controls for manipulating colour, strikeout and underline properties.

.PP
The default value is true.


.RE
.B
\fBgetAllowSymbols(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxFontData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Under Windows, returns a flag determining whether symbol fonts can be selected.

.PP
Has no effect on other platforms.

.PP
The default value is true.


.RE
.B
\fBgetChosenFont(This) -> wxFont:wxFont() when This :: wxFontData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Gets the font chosen by the user if the user pressed OK (\fIwxFontDialog::ShowModal()\fR (not implemented in wx) returned wxID_OK).


.RE
.B
\fBgetColour(This) -> wx:wx_colour4() when This :: wxFontData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Gets the colour associated with the font dialog.

.PP
The default value is black.


.RE
.B
\fBgetEnableEffects(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxFontData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Determines whether "effects" are enabled under Windows.

.PP
This refers to the controls for manipulating colour, strikeout and underline properties.

.PP
The default value is true.


.RE
.B
\fBgetInitialFont(This) -> wxFont:wxFont() when This :: wxFontData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Gets the font that will be initially used by the font dialog.

.PP
This should have previously been set by the application.


.RE
.B
\fBgetShowHelp(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxFontData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the Help button will be shown (Windows only).

.PP
The default value is false.


.RE
.B
\fBnew() -> wxFontData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructor.

.PP
Initializes \fIfontColour\fR to black, \fIshowHelp\fR to false, \fIallowSymbols\fR to true, \fIenableEffects\fR to true, \fIminSize\fR to 0 and \fImaxSize\fR to 0.


.RE
.B
\fBnew(Data) -> wxFontData() when Data :: wxFontData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Copy Constructor.


.RE
.B
\fBsetAllowSymbols(This, AllowSymbols) -> ok\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             This :: wxFontData(),\fR
\fB                             AllowSymbols :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Under Windows, determines whether symbol fonts can be selected.

.PP
Has no effect on other platforms.

.PP
The default value is true.


.RE
.B
\fBsetChosenFont(This, Font) -> ok\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           This :: wxFontData(), Font :: wxFont:wxFont().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the font that will be returned to the user (for internal use only).


.RE
.B
\fBsetColour(This, Colour) -> ok\fR
\fB                   when This :: wxFontData(), Colour :: wx:wx_colour().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the colour that will be used for the font foreground colour.

.PP
The default colour is black.


.RE
.B
\fBsetInitialFont(This, Font) -> ok\fR
\fB                        when\fR
\fB                            This :: wxFontData(),\fR
\fB                            Font :: wxFont:wxFont().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the font that will be initially used by the font dialog.


.RE
.B
\fBsetRange(This, Min, Max) -> ok\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      This :: wxFontData(),\fR
\fB                      Min :: integer(),\fR
\fB                      Max :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the valid range for the font point size (Windows only).

.PP
The default is 0, 0 (unrestricted range).


.RE
.B
\fBsetShowHelp(This, ShowHelp) -> ok\fR
\fB                     when This :: wxFontData(), ShowHelp :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Determines whether the Help button will be displayed in the font dialog (Windows only).

.PP
The default value is false.


.RE
