.TH wxGridSizer 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxGridSizer \- A grid sizer is a sizer which lays out its children in a two-dimensional table with all table fields having the same size, i.e.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
the width of each field is the width of the widest child, the height of each field is the height of the tallest child.

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxSizer\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
Overview sizer

.RE

.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxSizer\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxGridSizer

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxGridSizer() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxGridSizer()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBgetCols(This) -> integer() when This :: wxGridSizer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the number of columns that has been specified for the sizer.

.PP
Returns zero if the sizer is automatically adjusting the number of columns depending on number of its children. To get the effective number of columns or rows being currently used, see \fIGetEffectiveColsCount()\fR (not implemented in wx)


.RE
.B
\fBgetHGap(This) -> integer() when This :: wxGridSizer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the horizontal gap (in pixels) between cells in the sizer.


.RE
.B
\fBgetRows(This) -> integer() when This :: wxGridSizer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the number of rows that has been specified for the sizer.

.PP
Returns zero if the sizer is automatically adjusting the number of rows depending on number of its children. To get the effective number of columns or rows being currently used, see \fIGetEffectiveRowsCount()\fR (not implemented in wx).


.RE
.B
\fBgetVGap(This) -> integer() when This :: wxGridSizer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the vertical gap (in pixels) between the cells in the sizer.


.RE
.B
\fBnew(Cols, [Option]) -> wxGridSizer()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Cols :: integer(),\fR
\fB                 Option :: {gap, {W :: integer(), H :: integer()}}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBnew(Cols, Vgap, Hgap) -> wxGridSizer()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Cols :: integer(), Vgap :: integer(), Hgap :: integer();\fR
\fB         (Rows, Cols, Gap) -> wxGridSizer()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Rows :: integer(),\fR
\fB                 Cols :: integer(),\fR
\fB                 Gap :: {W :: integer(), H :: integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBnew(Rows, Cols, Vgap, Hgap) -> wxGridSizer()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Rows :: integer(),\fR
\fB                 Cols :: integer(),\fR
\fB                 Vgap :: integer(),\fR
\fB                 Hgap :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsetCols(This, Cols) -> ok\fR
\fB                 when This :: wxGridSizer(), Cols :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the number of columns in the sizer.


.RE
.B
\fBsetHGap(This, Gap) -> ok\fR
\fB                 when This :: wxGridSizer(), Gap :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the horizontal gap (in pixels) between cells in the sizer.


.RE
.B
\fBsetRows(This, Rows) -> ok\fR
\fB                 when This :: wxGridSizer(), Rows :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the number of rows in the sizer.


.RE
.B
\fBsetVGap(This, Gap) -> ok\fR
\fB                 when This :: wxGridSizer(), Gap :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the vertical gap (in pixels) between the cells in the sizer.


.RE
