.TH wxGraphicsMatrix 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxGraphicsMatrix \- A \fIwxGraphicsMatrix\fR is a native representation of an affine matrix.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The contents are specific and private to the respective renderer. Instances are ref counted and can therefore be assigned as usual. The only way to get a valid instance is via \fIwxGraphicsContext:createMatrix/2\fR or \fIwxGraphicsRenderer:createMatrix/2\fR.

.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxGraphicsObject\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxGraphicsMatrix

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxGraphicsMatrix() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBconcat(This, T) -> ok\fR
\fB                when This :: wxGraphicsMatrix(), T :: wxGraphicsMatrix().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Concatenates the matrix passed with the current matrix.

.PP
The effect of the resulting transformation is to first apply the transformation in \fIt\fR to the coordinates and then apply the transformation in the current matrix to the coordinates.


.RE
.B
\fBget(This) -> Result\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Result ::\fR
\fB                     {A :: number(),\fR
\fB                      B :: number(),\fR
\fB                      C :: number(),\fR
\fB                      D :: number(),\fR
\fB                      Tx :: number(),\fR
\fB                      Ty :: number()},\fR
\fB                 This :: wxGraphicsMatrix().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the component values of the matrix via the argument pointers.


.RE
.B
\fBinvert(This) -> ok when This :: wxGraphicsMatrix().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Inverts the matrix.


.RE
.B
\fBisEqual(This, T) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                 when\fR
\fB                     This :: wxGraphicsMatrix(), T :: wxGraphicsMatrix().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the elements of the transformation matrix are equal.


.RE
.B
\fBisIdentity(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxGraphicsMatrix().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Return true if this is the identity matrix.


.RE
.B
\fBrotate(This, Angle) -> ok\fR
\fB                when This :: wxGraphicsMatrix(), Angle :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Rotates this matrix clockwise (in radians).


.RE
.B
\fBscale(This, XScale, YScale) -> ok\fR
\fB               when\fR
\fB                   This :: wxGraphicsMatrix(),\fR
\fB                   XScale :: number(),\fR
\fB                   YScale :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Scales this matrix.


.RE
.B
\fBset(This, [Option]) -> ok\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 This :: wxGraphicsMatrix(),\fR
\fB                 Option ::\fR
\fB                     {a, number()} |\fR
\fB                     {b, number()} |\fR
\fB                     {c, number()} |\fR
\fB                     {d, number()} |\fR
\fB                     {tx, number()} |\fR
\fB                     {ty, number()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the matrix to the respective values (default values are the identity matrix).


.RE
.B
\fBtransformDistance(This) -> {Dx :: number(), Dy :: number()}\fR
\fB                           when This :: wxGraphicsMatrix().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Applies this matrix to a distance (ie.

.PP
performs all transforms except translations).


.RE
.B
\fBtransformPoint(This) -> {X :: number(), Y :: number()}\fR
\fB                        when This :: wxGraphicsMatrix().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Applies this matrix to a point.


.RE
.B
\fBtranslate(This, Dx, Dy) -> ok\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       This :: wxGraphicsMatrix(),\fR
\fB                       Dx :: number(),\fR
\fB                       Dy :: number().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Translates this matrix.


.RE
