.TH wxGridCellAttr 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxGridCellAttr \- This class can be used to alter the cells' appearance in the grid by changing their attributes from the defaults.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
An object of this class may be returned by \fIwxGridTableBase::GetAttr()\fR (not implemented in wx).

.PP
Note that objects of this class are reference-counted and it's recommended to use wxGridCellAttrPtr smart pointer class when working with them to avoid memory leaks.

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxGridCellAttr

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxGridCellAttr() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBgetAlignment(This) -> {HAlign :: integer(), VAlign :: integer()}\fR
\fB                      when This :: wxGridCellAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Get the alignment to use for the cell with the given attribute.

.PP
If this attribute doesn't specify any alignment, the default attribute alignment is used (which can be changed using \fIwxGrid:setDefaultCellAlignment/3\fR but is left and top by default).

.PP
Notice that \fIhAlign\fR and \fIvAlign\fR values are always overwritten by this function, use \fIGetNonDefaultAlignment()\fR (not implemented in wx) if this is not desirable.


.RE
.B
\fBgetBackgroundColour(This) -> wx:wx_colour4()\fR
\fB                             when This :: wxGridCellAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the background colour.


.RE
.B
\fBgetEditor(This, Grid, Row, Col) ->\fR
\fB                   wxGridCellEditor:wxGridCellEditor()\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       This :: wxGridCellAttr(),\fR
\fB                       Grid :: wxGrid:wxGrid(),\fR
\fB                       Row :: integer(),\fR
\fB                       Col :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the cell editor.

.PP
The caller is responsible for calling \fIDecRef()\fR (not implemented in wx) on the returned pointer, use \fIGetEditorPtr()\fR (not implemented in wx) to do it automatically.


.RE
.B
\fBgetFont(This) -> wxFont:wxFont() when This :: wxGridCellAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the font.


.RE
.B
\fBgetRenderer(This, Grid, Row, Col) ->\fR
\fB                     wxGridCellRenderer:wxGridCellRenderer()\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         This :: wxGridCellAttr(),\fR
\fB                         Grid :: wxGrid:wxGrid(),\fR
\fB                         Row :: integer(),\fR
\fB                         Col :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the cell renderer.

.PP
The caller is responsible for calling \fIDecRef()\fR (not implemented in wx) on the returned pointer, use \fIGetRendererPtr()\fR (not implemented in wx) to do it automatically.


.RE
.B
\fBgetTextColour(This) -> wx:wx_colour4()\fR
\fB                       when This :: wxGridCellAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the text colour.


.RE
.B
\fBhasAlignment(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxGridCellAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if this attribute has a valid alignment set.


.RE
.B
\fBhasBackgroundColour(This) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                             when This :: wxGridCellAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if this attribute has a valid background colour set.


.RE
.B
\fBhasEditor(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxGridCellAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if this attribute has a valid cell editor set.


.RE
.B
\fBhasFont(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxGridCellAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if this attribute has a valid font set.


.RE
.B
\fBhasRenderer(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxGridCellAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if this attribute has a valid cell renderer set.


.RE
.B
\fBhasTextColour(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxGridCellAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if this attribute has a valid text colour set.


.RE
.B
\fBisReadOnly(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxGridCellAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if this cell is set as read-only.


.RE
.B
\fBsetAlignment(This, HAlign, VAlign) -> ok\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          This :: wxGridCellAttr(),\fR
\fB                          HAlign :: integer(),\fR
\fB                          VAlign :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the alignment.

.PP
\fIhAlign\fR can be one of \fIwxALIGN_LEFT\fR, \fIwxALIGN_CENTRE\fR or \fIwxALIGN_RIGHT\fR and \fIvAlign\fR can be one of \fIwxALIGN_TOP\fR, \fIwxALIGN_CENTRE\fR or \fIwxALIGN_BOTTOM\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBsetBackgroundColour(This, ColBack) -> ok\fR
\fB                             when\fR
\fB                                 This :: wxGridCellAttr(),\fR
\fB                                 ColBack :: wx:wx_colour().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the background colour.


.RE
.B
\fBsetDefAttr(This, DefAttr) -> ok\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        This :: wxGridCellAttr(),\fR
\fB                        DefAttr :: wxGridCellAttr().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsetEditor(This, Editor) -> ok\fR
\fB                   when\fR
\fB                       This :: wxGridCellAttr(),\fR
\fB                       Editor :: wxGridCellEditor:wxGridCellEditor().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the editor to be used with the cells with this attribute.


.RE
.B
\fBsetFont(This, Font) -> ok\fR
\fB                 when This :: wxGridCellAttr(), Font :: wxFont:wxFont().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the font.


.RE
.B
\fBsetReadOnly(This, [Option]) -> ok\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         This :: wxGridCellAttr(),\fR
\fB                         Option :: {isReadOnly, boolean()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the cell as read-only.


.RE
.B
\fBsetRenderer(This, Renderer) -> ok\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         This :: wxGridCellAttr(),\fR
\fB                         Renderer ::\fR
\fB                             wxGridCellRenderer:wxGridCellRenderer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the renderer to be used for cells with this attribute.

.PP
Takes ownership of the pointer.


.RE
.B
\fBsetTextColour(This, ColText) -> ok\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           This :: wxGridCellAttr(),\fR
\fB                           ColText :: wx:wx_colour().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the text colour.


.RE
