.TH wxJoystickEvent 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxJoystickEvent \- This event class contains information about joystick events, particularly events received by windows.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxEvent\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxJoystickEvent

.SS "Events"

.PP
Use \fIwxEvtHandler:connect/3\fR with \fIwxJoystickEventType\fR to subscribe to events of this type.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxJoystick() :: #wxJoystick{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBwxJoystickEvent() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBwxJoystickEventType() ::\fR
\fB          joy_button_down | joy_button_up | joy_move | joy_zmove.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBbuttonDown(This, [Option]) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        This :: wxJoystickEvent(),\fR
\fB                        Option :: {but, integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the event was a down event from the specified button (or any button).


.RE
.B
\fBbuttonIsDown(This, [Option]) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          This :: wxJoystickEvent(),\fR
\fB                          Option :: {but, integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the specified button (or any button) was in a down state.


.RE
.B
\fBbuttonUp(This, [Option]) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      This :: wxJoystickEvent(),\fR
\fB                      Option :: {but, integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the event was an up event from the specified button (or any button).


.RE
.B
\fBgetButtonChange(This) -> integer() when This :: wxJoystickEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the identifier of the button changing state.

.PP
The return value is where \fIn\fR is the index of the button changing state, which can also be retrieved using \fIGetButtonOrdinal()\fR (not implemented in wx).

.PP
Note that for \fIn\fR equal to 1, 2, 3 or 4 there are predefined \fIwxJOY_BUTTONn\fR constants which can be used for more clarity, however these constants are not defined for the buttons beyond the first four.


.RE
.B
\fBgetButtonState(This) -> integer() when This :: wxJoystickEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the down state of the buttons.

.PP
This is a \fIwxJOY_BUTTONn\fR identifier, where \fIn\fR is one of 1, 2, 3, 4.


.RE
.B
\fBgetJoystick(This) -> integer() when This :: wxJoystickEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the identifier of the joystick generating the event - one of wxJOYSTICK1 and wxJOYSTICK2.


.RE
.B
\fBgetPosition(This) -> {X :: integer(), Y :: integer()}\fR
\fB                     when This :: wxJoystickEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the x, y position of the joystick event.

.PP
These coordinates are valid for all the events except wxEVT_JOY_ZMOVE.


.RE
.B
\fBgetZPosition(This) -> integer() when This :: wxJoystickEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the z position of the joystick event.

.PP
This method can only be used for wxEVT_JOY_ZMOVE events.


.RE
.B
\fBisButton(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxJoystickEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if this was a button up or down event (\fInot\fR 'is any button down?').


.RE
.B
\fBisMove(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxJoystickEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if this was an x, y move event.


.RE
.B
\fBisZMove(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxJoystickEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if this was a z move event.


.RE
