.TH wxListView 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxListView \- This class currently simply presents a simpler to use interface for the \fIwxListCtrl\fR -- it can be thought of as a \fIfaçade\fR for that complicated class.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Using it is preferable to using \fIwxListCtrl\fR directly whenever possible because in the future some ports might implement \fIwxListView\fR but not the full set of \fIwxListCtrl\fR features.

.PP
Other than different interface, this class is identical to \fIwxListCtrl\fR. In particular, it uses the same events, same window styles and so on.

.PP
See: \fIsetColumnImage/3\fR

.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxControl\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxWindow\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxEvtHandler\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxListView

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxListView() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBclearColumnImage(This, Col) -> ok\fR
\fB                          when This :: wxListView(), Col :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Resets the column image -- after calling this function, no image will be shown.

.PP
See: \fIsetColumnImage/3\fR


.RE
.B
\fBfocus(This, Index) -> ok\fR
\fB               when This :: wxListView(), Index :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets focus to the item with the given \fIindex\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBgetFirstSelected(This) -> integer() when This :: wxListView().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the first selected item in a (presumably) multiple selection control.

.PP
Together with \fIgetNextSelected/2\fR it can be used to iterate over all selected items in the control.

.PP
Return: The first selected item, if any, -1 otherwise.


.RE
.B
\fBgetFocusedItem(This) -> integer() when This :: wxListView().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the currently focused item or -1 if none.

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIisSelected/2\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIfocus/2\fR

.RE


.RE
.B
\fBgetNextSelected(This, Item) -> integer()\fR
\fB                         when This :: wxListView(), Item :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Used together with \fIgetFirstSelected/1\fR to iterate over all selected items in the control.

.PP
Return: Returns the next selected item or -1 if there are no more of them.


.RE
.B
\fBisSelected(This, Index) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                    when This :: wxListView(), Index :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the item with the given \fIindex\fR is selected, false otherwise.

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIgetFirstSelected/1\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIgetNextSelected/2\fR

.RE


.RE
.B
\fBselect(This, N, [Option]) -> ok\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    This :: wxListView(),\fR
\fB                    N :: integer(),\fR
\fB                    Option :: {on, boolean()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Selects or unselects the given item.

.PP
Notice that this method inherits the unusual behaviour of \fIwxListCtrl:setItemState/4\fR which sends a wxEVT_LIST_ITEM_SELECTED event when it is used to select an item, contrary to the usual rule that only the user actions result in selection.


.RE
.B
\fBsetColumnImage(This, Col, Image) -> ok\fR
\fB                        when\fR
\fB                            This :: wxListView(),\fR
\fB                            Col :: integer(),\fR
\fB                            Image :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the column image for the specified column.

.PP
To use the column images, the control must have a valid image list with at least one image.


.RE
