.TH wxMask 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxMask \- This class encapsulates a monochrome mask bitmap, where the masked area is black and the unmasked area is white.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
When associated with a bitmap and drawn in a device context, the unmasked area of the bitmap will be drawn, and the masked area will not be drawn.

.PP
Note: A mask can be associated also with a bitmap with an alpha channel but drawing such bitmaps under wxMSW may be slow so using them should be avoided if drawing performance is an important factor.

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxBitmap\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxDC:blit/6\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxMemoryDC\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxMask

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxMask() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBcreate(This, Bitmap) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                when This :: wxMask(), Bitmap :: wxBitmap:wxBitmap().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructs a mask from a monochrome bitmap.


.RE
.B
\fBcreate(This, Bitmap, Index) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    This :: wxMask(),\fR
\fB                    Bitmap :: wxBitmap:wxBitmap(),\fR
\fB                    Index :: integer();\fR
\fB            (This, Bitmap, Colour) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    This :: wxMask(),\fR
\fB                    Bitmap :: wxBitmap:wxBitmap(),\fR
\fB                    Colour :: wx:wx_colour().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructs a mask from a bitmap and a colour that indicates the background.


.RE
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxMask()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBnew() -> wxMask().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Default constructor.


.RE
.B
\fBnew(Bitmap) -> wxMask() when Bitmap :: wxBitmap:wxBitmap().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructs a mask from a monochrome bitmap.


.RE
.B
\fBnew(Bitmap, Index) -> wxMask()\fR
\fB             when Bitmap :: wxBitmap:wxBitmap(), Index :: integer();\fR
\fB         (Bitmap, Colour) -> wxMask()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Bitmap :: wxBitmap:wxBitmap(), Colour :: wx:wx_colour().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructs a mask from a bitmap and a colour that indicates the background.


.RE
