.TH wxMDIClientWindow 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxMDIClientWindow \- An MDI client window is a child of \fIwxMDIParentFrame\fR, and manages zero or more \fIwxMDIChildFrame\fR objects.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The client window is the area where MDI child windows exist. It doesn't have to cover the whole parent frame; other windows such as toolbars and a help window might coexist with it. There can be scrollbars on a client window, which are controlled by the parent window style.

.PP
The \fIwxMDIClientWindow\fR class is usually adequate without further derivation, and it is created automatically when the MDI parent frame is created. If the application needs to derive a new class, the function \fIwxMDIParentFrame::OnCreateClient()\fR (not implemented in wx) must be overridden in order to give an opportunity to use a different class of client window.

.PP
Under wxMSW, the client window will automatically have a sunken border style when the active child is not maximized, and no border style when a child is maximized.

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxMDIChildFrame\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxMDIParentFrame\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxFrame\fR

.RE

.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxWindow\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxEvtHandler\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxMDIClientWindow

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxMDIClientWindow() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBcreateClient(This, Parent, [Option]) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          This :: wxMDIClientWindow(),\fR
\fB                          Parent :: wxMDIParentFrame:wxMDIParentFrame(),\fR
\fB                          Option :: {style, integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Called by \fIwxMDIParentFrame\fR immediately after creating the client window.

.PP
This function may be overridden in the derived class but the base class version must usually be called first to really create the window.


.RE
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxMDIClientWindow()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBnew() -> wxMDIClientWindow().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Default constructor.

.PP
Objects of this class are only created by \fIwxMDIParentFrame\fR which uses the default constructor and calls \fIcreateClient/3\fR immediately afterwards.


.RE
