.TH wxPanel 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxPanel \- A panel is a window on which controls are placed.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
It is usually placed within a frame. Its main feature over its parent class \fIwxWindow\fR is code for handling child windows and TAB traversal, which is implemented natively if possible (e.g. in wxGTK) or by wxWidgets itself otherwise.

.PP
Note: Tab traversal is implemented through an otherwise undocumented intermediate wxControlContainer class from which any class can derive in addition to the normal \fIwxWindow\fR base class. Please see and to find out how this is achieved.

.PP
Note: if not all characters are being intercepted by your OnKeyDown or OnChar handler, it may be because you are using the \fIwxTAB_TRAVERSAL\fR style, which grabs some keypresses for use by child controls.

.PP
Remark: By default, a panel has the same colouring as a dialog.

.PP
See: \fIwxDialog\fR

.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxWindow\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxEvtHandler\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxPanel

.SS "Events"

.PP
Event types emitted from this class:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fInavigation_key\fR

.RE

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxPanel() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxPanel()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBinitDialog(This) -> ok when This :: wxPanel().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sends a \fIwxInitDialogEvent\fR, which in turn transfers data to the dialog via validators.

.PP
See: \fIwxInitDialogEvent\fR


.RE
.B
\fBnew() -> wxPanel().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Default constructor.


.RE
.B
\fBnew(Parent, [Option]) -> wxPanel()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Parent :: wxWindow:wxWindow(),\fR
\fB                 Option ::\fR
\fB                     {winid, integer()} |\fR
\fB                     {pos, {X :: integer(), Y :: integer()}} |\fR
\fB                     {size, {W :: integer(), H :: integer()}} |\fR
\fB                     {style, integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructor.


.RE
.B
\fBsetFocusIgnoringChildren(This) -> ok when This :: wxPanel().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
In contrast to \fIwxWindow:setFocus/1\fR (see above) this will set the focus to the panel even if there are child windows in the panel.

.PP
This is only rarely needed.


.RE
