.TH wxPrintDialogData 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxPrintDialogData \- This class holds information related to the visual characteristics of \fIwxPrintDialog\fR.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
It contains a \fIwxPrintData\fR object with underlying printing settings.

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
Overview printing

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxPrintDialog\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
Overview cmndlg

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxPrintDialogData

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxPrintDialogData() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxPrintDialogData()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBenableHelp(This, Flag) -> ok\fR
\fB                    when This :: wxPrintDialogData(), Flag :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Enables or disables the "Help" button.


.RE
.B
\fBenablePageNumbers(This, Flag) -> ok\fR
\fB                           when\fR
\fB                               This :: wxPrintDialogData(),\fR
\fB                               Flag :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Enables or disables the "Page numbers" controls.


.RE
.B
\fBenablePrintToFile(This, Flag) -> ok\fR
\fB                           when\fR
\fB                               This :: wxPrintDialogData(),\fR
\fB                               Flag :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Enables or disables the "Print to file" checkbox.


.RE
.B
\fBenableSelection(This, Flag) -> ok\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             This :: wxPrintDialogData(),\fR
\fB                             Flag :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Enables or disables the "Selection" radio button.


.RE
.B
\fBgetAllPages(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxPrintDialogData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the user requested that all pages be printed.


.RE
.B
\fBgetCollate(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxPrintDialogData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the user requested that the document(s) be collated.


.RE
.B
\fBgetFromPage(This) -> integer() when This :: wxPrintDialogData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the \fIfrom\fR page number, as entered by the user.


.RE
.B
\fBgetMaxPage(This) -> integer() when This :: wxPrintDialogData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the \fImaximum\fR page number.


.RE
.B
\fBgetMinPage(This) -> integer() when This :: wxPrintDialogData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the \fIminimum\fR page number.


.RE
.B
\fBgetNoCopies(This) -> integer() when This :: wxPrintDialogData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the number of copies requested by the user.


.RE
.B
\fBgetPrintData(This) -> wxPrintData:wxPrintData()\fR
\fB                      when This :: wxPrintDialogData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns a reference to the internal \fIwxPrintData\fR object.


.RE
.B
\fBgetPrintToFile(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxPrintDialogData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the user has selected printing to a file.


.RE
.B
\fBgetSelection(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxPrintDialogData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the user requested that the selection be printed (where "selection" is a concept specific to the application).


.RE
.B
\fBgetToPage(This) -> integer() when This :: wxPrintDialogData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the \fI"print to"\fR page number, as entered by the user.


.RE
.B
\fBisOk(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxPrintDialogData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the print data is valid for using in print dialogs.

.PP
This can return false on Windows if the current printer is not set, for example. On all other platforms, it returns true.


.RE
.B
\fBnew() -> wxPrintDialogData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Default constructor.


.RE
.B
\fBnew(DialogData) -> wxPrintDialogData()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 DialogData ::\fR
\fB                     wxPrintDialogData:wxPrintDialogData() |\fR
\fB                     wxPrintData:wxPrintData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Copy constructor.


.RE
.B
\fBsetCollate(This, Flag) -> ok\fR
\fB                    when This :: wxPrintDialogData(), Flag :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the "Collate" checkbox to true or false.


.RE
.B
\fBsetFromPage(This, Page) -> ok\fR
\fB                     when This :: wxPrintDialogData(), Page :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the \fIfrom\fR page number.


.RE
.B
\fBsetMaxPage(This, Page) -> ok\fR
\fB                    when This :: wxPrintDialogData(), Page :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the \fImaximum\fR page number.


.RE
.B
\fBsetMinPage(This, Page) -> ok\fR
\fB                    when This :: wxPrintDialogData(), Page :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the \fIminimum\fR page number.


.RE
.B
\fBsetNoCopies(This, N) -> ok\fR
\fB                     when This :: wxPrintDialogData(), N :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the default number of copies the user has requested to be printed out.


.RE
.B
\fBsetPrintData(This, PrintData) -> ok\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          This :: wxPrintDialogData(),\fR
\fB                          PrintData :: wxPrintData:wxPrintData().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the internal \fIwxPrintData\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBsetPrintToFile(This, Flag) -> ok\fR
\fB                        when\fR
\fB                            This :: wxPrintDialogData(),\fR
\fB                            Flag :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the "Print to file" checkbox to true or false.


.RE
.B
\fBsetSelection(This, Flag) -> ok\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          This :: wxPrintDialogData(), Flag :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Selects the "Selection" radio button.

.PP
The effect of printing the selection depends on how the application implements this command, if at all.


.RE
.B
\fBsetToPage(This, Page) -> ok\fR
\fB                   when This :: wxPrintDialogData(), Page :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the \fI"print to"\fR page number.


.RE
