.TH wxPreviewFrame 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxPreviewFrame \- This class provides the default method of managing the print preview interface.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Member functions may be overridden to replace functionality, or the class may be used without derivation.

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxPreviewCanvas\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxPreviewControlBar\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxPrintPreview\fR

.RE

.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxFrame\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxTopLevelWindow\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxWindow\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxEvtHandler\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxPreviewFrame

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxPreviewFrame() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBcreateCanvas(This) -> ok when This :: wxPreviewFrame().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Creates a \fIwxPreviewCanvas\fR.

.PP
Override this function to allow a user-defined preview canvas object to be created.


.RE
.B
\fBcreateControlBar(This) -> ok when This :: wxPreviewFrame().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Creates a \fIwxPreviewControlBar\fR.

.PP
Override this function to allow a user-defined preview control bar object to be created.


.RE
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxPreviewFrame()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBinitialize(This) -> ok when This :: wxPreviewFrame().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Initializes the frame elements and prepares for showing it.

.PP
Calling this method is equivalent to calling \fIInitializeWithModality()\fR (not implemented in wx) with wxPreviewFrame_AppModal argument, please see its documentation for more details.

.PP
Please notice that this function is virtual mostly for backwards compatibility only, there is no real need to override it as it's never called by wxWidgets itself.


.RE
.B
\fBnew(Preview, Parent, [Option]) -> wxPreviewFrame()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Preview :: wxPrintPreview:wxPrintPreview(),\fR
\fB                 Parent :: wxWindow:wxWindow(),\fR
\fB                 Option ::\fR
\fB                     {title, unicode:chardata()} |\fR
\fB                     {pos, {X :: integer(), Y :: integer()}} |\fR
\fB                     {size, {W :: integer(), H :: integer()}} |\fR
\fB                     {style, integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructor.

.PP
Pass a print preview object plus other normal frame arguments. The print preview object will be destroyed by the frame when it closes.


.RE
.B
\fBonCloseWindow(This, Event) -> ok\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           This :: wxPreviewFrame(),\fR
\fB                           Event :: wxCloseEvent:wxCloseEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Enables any disabled frames in the application, and deletes the print preview object, implicitly deleting any printout objects associated with the print preview object.


.RE
