.TH wxPrinter 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxPrinter \- This class represents the Windows or PostScript printer, and is the vehicle through which printing may be launched by an application.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Printing can also be achieved through using of lower functions and classes, but this and associated classes provide a more convenient and general method of printing.

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
Overview printing

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxPrintDialog\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxPrintout\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxPrintPreview\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxPrinter

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxPrinter() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBcreateAbortWindow(This, Parent, Printout) -> wxDialog:wxDialog()\fR
\fB                           when\fR
\fB                               This :: wxPrinter(),\fR
\fB                               Parent :: wxWindow:wxWindow(),\fR
\fB                               Printout :: wxPrintout:wxPrintout().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Creates the default printing abort window, with a cancel button.


.RE
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxPrinter()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBgetAbort(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxPrinter().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the user has aborted the print job.


.RE
.B
\fBgetLastError() -> wx:wx_enum().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Return last error.

.PP
Valid after calling \fIprint/4\fR, \fIprintDialog/2\fR or \fIwxPrintPreview:print/2\fR.

.PP
These functions set last error to \fIwxPRINTER_NO_ERROR\fR if no error happened.

.PP
Returned value is one of the following:


.RE
.B
\fBgetPrintDialogData(This) -> wxPrintDialogData:wxPrintDialogData()\fR
\fB                            when This :: wxPrinter().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the print data associated with the printer object.


.RE
.B
\fBnew([Option]) -> wxPrinter()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Option :: {data, wxPrintDialogData:wxPrintDialogData()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructor.

.PP
Pass an optional pointer to a block of print dialog data, which will be copied to the printer object's local data.

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxPrintDialogData\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxPrintData\fR

.RE


.RE
.B
\fBprint(This, Parent, Printout, [Option]) -> boolean()\fR
\fB               when\fR
\fB                   This :: wxPrinter(),\fR
\fB                   Parent :: wxWindow:wxWindow(),\fR
\fB                   Printout :: wxPrintout:wxPrintout(),\fR
\fB                   Option :: {prompt, boolean()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Starts the printing process.

.PP
Provide a parent window, a user-defined \fIwxPrintout\fR object which controls the printing of a document, and whether the print dialog should be invoked first.

.PP
\fIprint/4\fR could return false if there was a problem initializing the printer device context (current printer not set, for example) or the user cancelled printing. Call \fIgetLastError/0\fR to get detailed information about the kind of the error.


.RE
.B
\fBprintDialog(This, Parent) -> wxDC:wxDC()\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         This :: wxPrinter(),\fR
\fB                         Parent :: wxWindow:wxWindow().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Invokes the print dialog.

.PP
If successful (the user did not press Cancel and no error occurred), a suitable device context will be returned; otherwise NULL is returned; call \fIgetLastError/0\fR to get detailed information about the kind of the error.

.PP
Remark: The application must delete this device context to avoid a memory leak.


.RE
.B
\fBreportError(This, Parent, Printout, Message) -> ok\fR
\fB                     when\fR
\fB                         This :: wxPrinter(),\fR
\fB                         Parent :: wxWindow:wxWindow(),\fR
\fB                         Printout :: wxPrintout:wxPrintout(),\fR
\fB                         Message :: unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Default error-reporting function.


.RE
.B
\fBsetup(This, Parent) -> boolean()\fR
\fB               when This :: wxPrinter(), Parent :: wxWindow:wxWindow().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Invokes the print setup dialog.

.PP
Deprecated:

.PP
The setup dialog is obsolete, though retained for backward compatibility.


.RE
