.TH wxSashWindow 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxSashWindow \- \fIwxSashWindow\fR allows any of its edges to have a sash which can be dragged to resize the window.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The actual content window will be created by the application as a child of \fIwxSashWindow\fR.

.PP
The window (or an ancestor) will be notified of a drag via a \fIwxSashEvent\fR notification.

.SS "Styles"

.PP
This class supports the following styles:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
wxSW_3D: Draws a 3D effect sash and border.

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
wxSW_3DSASH: Draws a 3D effect sash.

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
wxSW_3DBORDER: Draws a 3D effect border.

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
wxSW_BORDER: Draws a thin black border.

.RE

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxSashEvent\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxSashLayoutWindow\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
Overview events

.RE

.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxWindow\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxEvtHandler\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxSashWindow

.SS "Events"

.PP
Event types emitted from this class:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIsash_dragged\fR

.RE

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxSashWindow() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxSashWindow()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBgetMaximumSizeX(This) -> integer() when This :: wxSashWindow().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Gets the maximum window size in the x direction.


.RE
.B
\fBgetMaximumSizeY(This) -> integer() when This :: wxSashWindow().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Gets the maximum window size in the y direction.


.RE
.B
\fBgetMinimumSizeX(This) -> integer() when This :: wxSashWindow().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Gets the minimum window size in the x direction.


.RE
.B
\fBgetMinimumSizeY(This) -> integer() when This :: wxSashWindow().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Gets the minimum window size in the y direction.


.RE
.B
\fBgetSashVisible(This, Edge) -> boolean()\fR
\fB                        when\fR
\fB                            This :: wxSashWindow(), Edge :: wx:wx_enum().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if a sash is visible on the given edge, false otherwise.

.PP
See: \fIsetSashVisible/3\fR


.RE
.B
\fBnew() -> wxSashWindow().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Default ctor.


.RE
.B
\fBnew(Parent, [Option]) -> wxSashWindow()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Parent :: wxWindow:wxWindow(),\fR
\fB                 Option ::\fR
\fB                     {id, integer()} |\fR
\fB                     {pos, {X :: integer(), Y :: integer()}} |\fR
\fB                     {size, {W :: integer(), H :: integer()}} |\fR
\fB                     {style, integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructs a sash window, which can be a child of a frame, dialog or any other non-control window.


.RE
.B
\fBsetMaximumSizeX(This, Min) -> ok\fR
\fB                         when This :: wxSashWindow(), Min :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the maximum window size in the x direction.


.RE
.B
\fBsetMaximumSizeY(This, Min) -> ok\fR
\fB                         when This :: wxSashWindow(), Min :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the maximum window size in the y direction.


.RE
.B
\fBsetMinimumSizeX(This, Min) -> ok\fR
\fB                         when This :: wxSashWindow(), Min :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the minimum window size in the x direction.


.RE
.B
\fBsetMinimumSizeY(This, Min) -> ok\fR
\fB                         when This :: wxSashWindow(), Min :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the minimum window size in the y direction.


.RE
.B
\fBsetSashVisible(This, Edge, Visible) -> ok\fR
\fB                        when\fR
\fB                            This :: wxSashWindow(),\fR
\fB                            Edge :: wx:wx_enum(),\fR
\fB                            Visible :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Call this function to make a sash visible or invisible on a particular edge.

.PP
See: \fIgetSashVisible/2\fR


.RE
