.TH wxScrollEvent 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxScrollEvent \- A scroll event holds information about events sent from stand-alone scrollbars (see \fIwxScrollBar\fR) and sliders (see \fIwxSlider\fR).

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Note that scrolled windows send the \fIwxScrollWinEvent\fR which does not derive from \fIwxCommandEvent\fR, but from \fIwxEvent\fR directly - don't confuse these two kinds of events and use the event table macros mentioned below only for the scrollbar-like controls.

.PP
The difference between EVT_SCROLL_THUMBRELEASE and EVT_SCROLL_CHANGED

.PP
The EVT_SCROLL_THUMBRELEASE event is only emitted when actually dragging the thumb using the mouse and releasing it (This EVT_SCROLL_THUMBRELEASE event is also followed by an EVT_SCROLL_CHANGED event).

.PP
The EVT_SCROLL_CHANGED event also occurs when using the keyboard to change the thumb position, and when clicking next to the thumb (In all these cases the EVT_SCROLL_THUMBRELEASE event does not happen).

.PP
In short, the EVT_SCROLL_CHANGED event is triggered when scrolling/ moving has finished independently of the way it had started. Please see the page_samples_widgets ("Slider" page) to see the difference between EVT_SCROLL_THUMBRELEASE and EVT_SCROLL_CHANGED in action.

.PP
Remark: Note that unless specifying a scroll control identifier, you will need to test for scrollbar orientation with \fIgetOrientation/1\fR, since horizontal and vertical scroll events are processed using the same event handler.

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxScrollBar\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxSlider\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxSpinButton\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxScrollWinEvent\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
Overview events

.RE

.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxCommandEvent\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxEvent\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxScrollEvent

.SS "Events"

.PP
Use \fIwxEvtHandler:connect/3\fR with \fIwxScrollEventType\fR to subscribe to events of this type.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxScroll() :: #wxScroll{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBwxScrollEvent() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBwxScrollEventType() ::\fR
\fB          scroll_top | scroll_bottom | scroll_lineup | scroll_linedown |\fR
\fB          scroll_pageup | scroll_pagedown | scroll_thumbtrack |\fR
\fB          scroll_thumbrelease | scroll_changed.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBgetOrientation(This) -> integer() when This :: wxScrollEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns wxHORIZONTAL or wxVERTICAL, depending on the orientation of the scrollbar.


.RE
.B
\fBgetPosition(This) -> integer() when This :: wxScrollEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the position of the scrollbar.


.RE
