.TH wxSizerFlags 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxSizerFlags \- Container for sizer items flags providing readable names for them.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Normally, when you add an item to a sizer via \fIwxSizer:add/4\fR, you have to specify a lot of flags and parameters which can be unwieldy. This is where \fIwxSizerFlags\fR comes in: it allows you to specify all parameters using the named methods instead. For example, instead of

.PP
you can now write

.PP
This is more readable and also allows you to create \fIwxSizerFlags\fR objects which can be reused for several sizer items.

.PP
Note that by specification, all methods of \fIwxSizerFlags\fR return the \fIwxSizerFlags\fR object itself to allowing chaining multiple methods calls like in the examples above.

.PP
See: \fIwxSizer\fR

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxSizerFlags

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxSizerFlags() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBalign(This, Alignment) -> wxSizerFlags()\fR
\fB               when This :: wxSizerFlags(), Alignment :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the alignment of this \fIwxSizerFlags\fR to \fIalign\fR.

.PP
This method replaces the previously set alignment with the specified one.

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIleft/1\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIright/1\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIcentre/1\fR

.RE


.RE
.B
\fBborder(This, [Option]) -> wxSizerFlags()\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    This :: wxSizerFlags(),\fR
\fB                    Option :: {direction, integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the \fIwxSizerFlags\fR to have a border with size as returned by \fIGetDefaultBorder()\fR (not implemented in wx).


.RE
.B
\fBborder(This, Direction, Borderinpixels) -> wxSizerFlags()\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    This :: wxSizerFlags(),\fR
\fB                    Direction :: integer(),\fR
\fB                    Borderinpixels :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the \fIwxSizerFlags\fR to have a border of a number of pixels specified by \fIborderinpixels\fR with the directions specified by \fIdirection\fR.

.PP
Prefer to use the overload below or \fIDoubleBorder()\fR (not implemented in wx) or \fITripleBorder()\fR (not implemented in wx) versions instead of hard-coding the border value in pixels to avoid too small borders on devices with high DPI displays.


.RE
.B
\fBcenter(This) -> wxSizerFlags() when This :: wxSizerFlags().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the object of the \fIwxSizerFlags\fR to center itself in the area it is given.


.RE
.B
\fBcentre(This) -> wxSizerFlags() when This :: wxSizerFlags().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Equivalent to: \fIcenter/1\fR


.RE
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxSizerFlags()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBexpand(This) -> wxSizerFlags() when This :: wxSizerFlags().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the object of the \fIwxSizerFlags\fR to expand to fill as much area as it can.


.RE
.B
\fBleft(This) -> wxSizerFlags() when This :: wxSizerFlags().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Aligns the object to the left, similar for \fIAlign(wxALIGN\\_LEFT)\fR.

.PP
Unlike \fIalign/2\fR, this method doesn't change the vertical alignment of the item.


.RE
.B
\fBnew([Option]) -> wxSizerFlags()\fR
\fB             when Option :: {proportion, integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Creates the \fIwxSizer\fR with the proportion specified by \fIproportion\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBproportion(This, Proportion) -> wxSizerFlags()\fR
\fB                    when This :: wxSizerFlags(), Proportion :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the proportion of this \fIwxSizerFlags\fR to \fIproportion\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBright(This) -> wxSizerFlags() when This :: wxSizerFlags().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Aligns the object to the right, similar for \fIAlign(wxALIGN\\_RIGHT)\fR.

.PP
Unlike \fIalign/2\fR, this method doesn't change the vertical alignment of the item.


.RE
