.TH wxSingleChoiceDialog 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxSingleChoiceDialog \- This class represents a dialog that shows a list of strings, and allows the user to select one.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Double-clicking on a list item is equivalent to single-clicking and then pressing OK.

.SS "Styles"

.PP
This class supports the following styles:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
wxOK: Show an OK button.

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
wxCANCEL: Show a Cancel button.

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
wxCENTRE: Centre the message.

.RE

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
Overview cmndlg

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxMultiChoiceDialog\fR

.RE

.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxDialog\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxTopLevelWindow\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxWindow\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxEvtHandler\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxSingleChoiceDialog

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxSingleChoiceDialog() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxSingleChoiceDialog()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBgetSelection(This) -> integer()\fR
\fB                      when This :: wxSingleChoiceDialog().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the index of selected item.


.RE
.B
\fBgetStringSelection(This) -> unicode:charlist()\fR
\fB                            when This :: wxSingleChoiceDialog().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the selected string.


.RE
.B
\fBnew(Parent, Message, Caption, Choices, [Option]) ->\fR
\fB             wxSingleChoiceDialog()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Parent :: wxWindow:wxWindow(),\fR
\fB                 Message :: unicode:chardata(),\fR
\fB                 Caption :: unicode:chardata(),\fR
\fB                 Choices :: [unicode:chardata()],\fR
\fB                 Option ::\fR
\fB                     {style, integer()} |\fR
\fB                     {pos, {X :: integer(), Y :: integer()}}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructor, taking an array of \fIwxString\fR (not implemented in wx) choices and optional client data.

.PP
Remark: Use \fIwxDialog:showModal/1\fR to show the dialog.


.RE
.B
\fBsetSelection(This, Selection) -> ok\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          This :: wxSingleChoiceDialog(),\fR
\fB                          Selection :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the index of the initially selected item.


.RE
