.TH wxStaticBoxSizer 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxStaticBoxSizer \- \fIwxStaticBoxSizer\fR is a sizer derived from \fIwxBoxSizer\fR but adds a static box around the sizer.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The static box may be either created independently or the sizer may create it itself as a convenience. In any case, the sizer owns the \fIwxStaticBox\fR control and will delete it in the \fIwxStaticBoxSizer\fR destructor.

.PP
Note that since wxWidgets 2.9.1 you are encouraged to create the windows which are added to \fIwxStaticBoxSizer\fR as children of \fIwxStaticBox\fR itself, see this class documentation for more details.

.PP
Example of use of this class:

.PP
See:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxSizer\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxStaticBox\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxBoxSizer\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
Overview sizer

.RE

.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxBoxSizer\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxSizer\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxStaticBoxSizer

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxStaticBoxSizer() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxStaticBoxSizer()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBgetStaticBox(This) -> wxStaticBox:wxStaticBox()\fR
\fB                      when This :: wxStaticBoxSizer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the static box associated with the sizer.


.RE
.B
\fBnew(Orient, Parent) -> wxStaticBoxSizer()\fR
\fB             when Orient :: integer(), Parent :: wxWindow:wxWindow();\fR
\fB         (Box, Orient) -> wxStaticBoxSizer()\fR
\fB             when Box :: wxStaticBox:wxStaticBox(), Orient :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This constructor uses an already existing static box.


.RE
.B
\fBnew(Orient, Parent, [Option]) -> wxStaticBoxSizer()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Orient :: integer(),\fR
\fB                 Parent :: wxWindow:wxWindow(),\fR
\fB                 Option :: {label, unicode:chardata()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
This constructor creates a new static box with the given label and parent window.


.RE
