.TH wxTextEntryDialog 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxTextEntryDialog \- This class represents a dialog that requests a one-line text string from the user.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
It is implemented as a generic wxWidgets dialog.

.PP
See: Overview cmndlg

.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxDialog\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxTopLevelWindow\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxWindow\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxEvtHandler\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxTextEntryDialog

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxTextEntryDialog() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxTextEntryDialog()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBgetValue(This) -> unicode:charlist()\fR
\fB                  when This :: wxTextEntryDialog().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the text that the user has entered if the user has pressed OK, or the original value if the user has pressed Cancel.


.RE
.B
\fBnew() -> wxTextEntryDialog().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Default constructor.

.PP
Call \fICreate()\fR (not implemented in wx) to really create the dialog later.

.PP
Since: 2.9.5


.RE
.B
\fBnew(Parent, Message, [Option]) -> wxTextEntryDialog()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 Parent :: wxWindow:wxWindow(),\fR
\fB                 Message :: unicode:chardata(),\fR
\fB                 Option ::\fR
\fB                     {caption, unicode:chardata()} |\fR
\fB                     {value, unicode:chardata()} |\fR
\fB                     {style, integer()} |\fR
\fB                     {pos, {X :: integer(), Y :: integer()}}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructor.

.PP
Use \fIwxDialog:showModal/1\fR to show the dialog.

.PP
See \fICreate()\fR (not implemented in wx) method for parameter description.


.RE
.B
\fBsetValue(This, Value) -> ok\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      This :: wxTextEntryDialog(),\fR
\fB                      Value :: unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the default text value.


.RE
