.TH wxTextAttr 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxTextAttr \- \fIwxTextAttr\fR represents the character and paragraph attributes, or style, for a range of text in a \fIwxTextCtrl\fR or \fIwxRichTextCtrl\fR (not implemented in wx).

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
When setting up a \fIwxTextAttr\fR object, pass a bitlist mask to \fIsetFlags/2\fR to indicate which style elements should be changed. As a convenience, when you call a setter such as SetFont, the relevant bit will be set.

.PP
See: \fIwxTextCtrl\fR

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxTextAttr

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxTextAttr() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBdestroy(This :: wxTextAttr()) -> ok.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Destroys the object


.RE
.B
\fBgetAlignment(This) -> wx:wx_enum() when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the alignment flags.

.PP
See ?wxTextAttrAlignment for a list of available styles.


.RE
.B
\fBgetBackgroundColour(This) -> wx:wx_colour4()\fR
\fB                             when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the background colour.


.RE
.B
\fBgetFlags(This) -> integer() when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns flags indicating which attributes are applicable.

.PP
See \fIsetFlags/2\fR for a list of available flags.


.RE
.B
\fBgetFont(This) -> wxFont:wxFont() when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Creates and returns a font specified by the font attributes in the \fIwxTextAttr\fR object.

.PP
Note that \fIwxTextAttr\fR does not store a \fIwxFont\fR object, so this is only a temporary font.

.PP
For greater efficiency, access the font attributes directly.


.RE
.B
\fBgetFontEncoding(This) -> wx:wx_enum() when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the font encoding.


.RE
.B
\fBgetFontFaceName(This) -> unicode:charlist()\fR
\fB                         when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the font face name.


.RE
.B
\fBgetFontSize(This) -> integer() when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the font size in points.


.RE
.B
\fBgetFontStyle(This) -> wx:wx_enum() when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the font style.


.RE
.B
\fBgetFontUnderlined(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the font is underlined.


.RE
.B
\fBgetFontWeight(This) -> wx:wx_enum() when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the font weight.


.RE
.B
\fBgetLeftIndent(This) -> integer() when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the left indent in tenths of a millimetre.


.RE
.B
\fBgetLeftSubIndent(This) -> integer() when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the left sub-indent in tenths of a millimetre.


.RE
.B
\fBgetRightIndent(This) -> integer() when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the right indent in tenths of a millimeter.


.RE
.B
\fBgetTabs(This) -> [integer()] when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns an array of tab stops, each expressed in tenths of a millimeter.

.PP
Each stop is measured from the left margin and therefore each value must be larger than the last.


.RE
.B
\fBgetTextColour(This) -> wx:wx_colour4() when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the text foreground colour.


.RE
.B
\fBhasBackgroundColour(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the attribute object specifies a background colour.


.RE
.B
\fBhasFont(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the attribute object specifies any font attributes.


.RE
.B
\fBhasTextColour(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the attribute object specifies a text foreground colour.


.RE
.B
\fBisDefault(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns false if we have any attributes set, true otherwise.


.RE
.B
\fBnew() -> wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Constructors.


.RE
.B
\fBnew(ColText) -> wxTextAttr() when ColText :: wx:wx_colour();\fR
\fB         (Attr) -> wxTextAttr() when Attr :: wxTextAttr().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBnew(ColText, [Option]) -> wxTextAttr()\fR
\fB             when\fR
\fB                 ColText :: wx:wx_colour(),\fR
\fB                 Option ::\fR
\fB                     {colBack, wx:wx_colour()} |\fR
\fB                     {font, wxFont:wxFont()} |\fR
\fB                     {alignment, wx:wx_enum()}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBsetAlignment(This, Alignment) -> ok\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          This :: wxTextAttr(),\fR
\fB                          Alignment :: wx:wx_enum().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the paragraph alignment.

.PP
See ?wxTextAttrAlignment enumeration values.

.PP
Of these, wxTEXT_ALIGNMENT_JUSTIFIED is unimplemented. In future justification may be supported when printing or previewing, only.


.RE
.B
\fBsetBackgroundColour(This, ColBack) -> ok\fR
\fB                             when\fR
\fB                                 This :: wxTextAttr(),\fR
\fB                                 ColBack :: wx:wx_colour().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the background colour.


.RE
.B
\fBsetFlags(This, Flags) -> ok\fR
\fB                  when This :: wxTextAttr(), Flags :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the flags determining which styles are being specified.

.PP
The ?wxTextAttrFlags values can be passed in a bitlist.


.RE
.B
\fBsetFont(This, Font, [Option]) -> ok\fR
\fB                 when\fR
\fB                     This :: wxTextAttr(),\fR
\fB                     Font :: wxFont:wxFont(),\fR
\fB                     Option :: {flags, integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the attributes for the given font.

.PP
Note that \fIwxTextAttr\fR does not store an actual \fIwxFont\fR object.


.RE
.B
\fBsetFontEncoding(This, Encoding) -> ok\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             This :: wxTextAttr(),\fR
\fB                             Encoding :: wx:wx_enum().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the font encoding.


.RE
.B
\fBsetFontFaceName(This, FaceName) -> ok\fR
\fB                         when\fR
\fB                             This :: wxTextAttr(),\fR
\fB                             FaceName :: unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the font face name.


.RE
.B
\fBsetFontFamily(This, Family) -> ok\fR
\fB                       when This :: wxTextAttr(), Family :: wx:wx_enum().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the font family.


.RE
.B
\fBsetFontPixelSize(This, PixelSize) -> ok\fR
\fB                          when\fR
\fB                              This :: wxTextAttr(),\fR
\fB                              PixelSize :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the font size in pixels.


.RE
.B
\fBsetFontPointSize(This, PointSize) -> ok\fR
\fB                          when\fR
\fB                              This :: wxTextAttr(),\fR
\fB                              PointSize :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the font size in points.


.RE
.B
\fBsetFontSize(This, PointSize) -> ok\fR
\fB                     when This :: wxTextAttr(), PointSize :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the font size in points.


.RE
.B
\fBsetFontStyle(This, FontStyle) -> ok\fR
\fB                      when\fR
\fB                          This :: wxTextAttr(),\fR
\fB                          FontStyle :: wx:wx_enum().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the font style (normal, italic or slanted).


.RE
.B
\fBsetFontUnderlined(This, Underlined) -> ok\fR
\fB                           when\fR
\fB                               This :: wxTextAttr(),\fR
\fB                               Underlined :: boolean().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the font underlining (solid line, text colour).


.RE
.B
\fBsetFontWeight(This, FontWeight) -> ok\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           This :: wxTextAttr(),\fR
\fB                           FontWeight :: wx:wx_enum().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the font weight.


.RE
.B
\fBsetLeftIndent(This, Indent, [Option]) -> ok\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           This :: wxTextAttr(),\fR
\fB                           Indent :: integer(),\fR
\fB                           Option :: {subIndent, integer()}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the left indent and left subindent in tenths of a millimetre.

.PP
The sub-indent is an offset from the left of the paragraph, and is used for all but the first line in a paragraph.

.PP
A positive value will cause the first line to appear to the left of the subsequent lines, and a negative value will cause the first line to be indented relative to the subsequent lines.

.PP
\fIwxRichTextBuffer\fR (not implemented in wx) uses indentation to render a bulleted item. The left indent is the distance between the margin and the bullet. The content of the paragraph, including the first line, starts at leftMargin + leftSubIndent. So the distance between the left edge of the bullet and the left of the actual paragraph is leftSubIndent.


.RE
.B
\fBsetRightIndent(This, Indent) -> ok\fR
\fB                        when This :: wxTextAttr(), Indent :: integer().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the right indent in tenths of a millimetre.


.RE
.B
\fBsetTabs(This, Tabs) -> ok\fR
\fB                 when This :: wxTextAttr(), Tabs :: [integer()].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the tab stops, expressed in tenths of a millimetre.

.PP
Each stop is measured from the left margin and therefore each value must be larger than the last.


.RE
.B
\fBsetTextColour(This, ColText) -> ok\fR
\fB                       when\fR
\fB                           This :: wxTextAttr(),\fR
\fB                           ColText :: wx:wx_colour().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Sets the text foreground colour.


.RE
