.TH wxTreeEvent 3 "wx 2.5.4" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
wxTreeEvent \- A tree event holds information about events associated with \fIwxTreeCtrl\fR objects.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
To process input from a tree control, use these event handler macros to direct input to member functions that take a \fIwxTreeEvent\fR argument.

.PP
See: \fIwxTreeCtrl\fR

.PP
This class is derived, and can use functions, from:


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxNotifyEvent\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxCommandEvent\fR

.RE


.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}.PP
\fIwxEvent\fR

.RE

.PP
wxWidgets docs: wxTreeEvent

.SS "Events"

.PP
Use \fIwxEvtHandler:connect/3\fR with \fIwxTreeEventType\fR to subscribe to events of this type.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBwxTree() :: #wxTree{}.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBwxTreeEvent() :: wx:wx_object().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBwxTreeEventType() ::\fR
\fB          command_tree_begin_drag | command_tree_begin_rdrag |\fR
\fB          command_tree_begin_label_edit | command_tree_end_label_edit |\fR
\fB          command_tree_delete_item | command_tree_get_info |\fR
\fB          command_tree_set_info | command_tree_item_expanded |\fR
\fB          command_tree_item_expanding | command_tree_item_collapsed |\fR
\fB          command_tree_item_collapsing | command_tree_sel_changed |\fR
\fB          command_tree_sel_changing | command_tree_key_down |\fR
\fB          command_tree_item_activated | command_tree_item_right_click |\fR
\fB          command_tree_item_middle_click | command_tree_end_drag |\fR
\fB          command_tree_state_image_click |\fR
\fB          command_tree_item_gettooltip | command_tree_item_menu |\fR
\fB          dirctrl_selectionchanged | dirctrl_fileactivated.\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBgetItem(This) -> integer() when This :: wxTreeEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the item (valid for all events).


.RE
.B
\fBgetKeyCode(This) -> integer() when This :: wxTreeEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the key code if the event is a key event.

.PP
Use \fIgetKeyEvent/1\fR to get the values of the modifier keys for this event (i.e. Shift or Ctrl).


.RE
.B
\fBgetKeyEvent(This) -> wxKeyEvent:wxKeyEvent()\fR
\fB                     when This :: wxTreeEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the key event for \fIEVT_TREE_KEY_DOWN\fR events.


.RE
.B
\fBgetLabel(This) -> unicode:charlist() when This :: wxTreeEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the label if the event is a begin or end edit label event.


.RE
.B
\fBgetOldItem(This) -> integer() when This :: wxTreeEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the old item index (valid for \fIEVT\\_TREE\\_SEL\\_CHANGING\fR and \fIEVT\\_TREE\\_SEL\\_CHANGED\fR events).


.RE
.B
\fBgetPoint(This) -> {X :: integer(), Y :: integer()}\fR
\fB                  when This :: wxTreeEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns the position of the mouse pointer if the event is a drag or menu-context event.

.PP
In both cases the position is in client coordinates - i.e. relative to the \fIwxTreeCtrl\fR window (so that you can pass it directly to e.g. \fIwxWindow:popupMenu/4\fR).


.RE
.B
\fBisEditCancelled(This) -> boolean() when This :: wxTreeEvent().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Returns true if the label edit was cancelled.

.PP
This should be called from within an \fIEVT_TREE_END_LABEL_EDIT\fR handler.


.RE
.B
\fBsetToolTip(This, Tooltip) -> ok\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        This :: wxTreeEvent(),\fR
\fB                        Tooltip :: unicode:chardata().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Set the tooltip for the item (valid for \fIEVT\\_TREE\\_ITEM\\_GETTOOLTIP\fR events).

.PP
Windows only.


.RE
