.TH xmerl_scan 3 "xmerl 2.1.9" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
xmerl_scan \- Single pass XML scanner.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This module is the interface to the XML parser, it handles XML 1.0. The XML parser is activated through \fIxmerl_scan:string/[1,2]\fR](\fIstring/1\fR) or [\fIxmerl_scan:file/[1,2]\fR. It returns records of the type defined in \fIxmerl.hrl\fR.

.PP
See also the "Customization functions" tutorial.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBdocument() :: xmlElement() | xmlDocument().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
An XML document.

.PP
The document returned by \fIxmerl_scan:string/[1,2]\fR](\fIstring/1\fR) and [\fIxmerl_scan:file/[1,2]\fR. The type of the returned record depends on the value of the \fIdocument\fR option passed to the function.


.RE
.B
\fBglobal_state() :: xmerl_scanner().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
The global state of the scanner, represented by the \fI#xmerl_scanner{}\fR record.


.RE
.B
\fBoption_list() ::\fR
\fB          [{atom(), term()} |\fR
\fB           {atom(), fun(), term()} |\fR
\fB           {atom(), fun(), fun(), term()}].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Options allow to customize the behaviour of the scanner.  See also the "Customization functions" tutorial.

.PP
Possible options are:

.PP
<dl> <dt><code>{acc_fun, Fun}</code></dt> <dd>Call back function to accumulate contents of entity.</dd> <dt><code>{continuation_fun, Fun} |

.IP
.nf
       {continuation_fun, Fun, ContinuationState}</code></dt>

.fi

.PP
<dd>Call back function to decide what to do if the scanner runs into EOF

.IP
.nf
before the document is complete.</dd>

.fi

.PP
<dt><code>{event_fun, Fun} |

.IP
.nf
       {event_fun, Fun, EventState}</code></dt>

.fi

.PP
<dd>Call back function to handle scanner events.</dd> <dt><code>{fetch_fun, Fun} |

.IP
.nf
       {fetch_fun, Fun, FetchState}</code></dt>

.fi

.PP
<dd>Call back function to fetch an external resource.</dd> <dt><code>{hook_fun, Fun} |

.IP
.nf
       {hook_fun, Fun, HookState}</code></dt>

.fi

.PP
<dd>Call back function to process the document entities once

.IP
.nf
identified.</dd>

.fi

.PP
<dt><code>{close_fun, Fun}</code></dt> <dd>Called when document has been completely parsed.</dd> <dt><code>{rules, ReadFun, WriteFun, RulesState} |

.IP
.nf
       {rules, Rules}</code></dt>

.fi

.PP
<dd>Handles storing of scanner information when parsing.</dd> <dt><code>{user_state, UserState}</code></dt> <dd>Global state variable accessible from all customization functions</dd>

.PP
<dt><code>{fetch_path, PathList}</code></dt> <dd>PathList is a list of

.IP
.nf
directories to search when fetching files. If the file in question
is not in the fetch_path, the URI will be used as a file
name.</dd>

.fi

.PP
<dt><code>{space, Flag}</code></dt> <dd><code>preserve</code> (default) to preserve spaces, <code>normalize</code> to accumulate consecutive whitespace and replace it with one space.</dd> <dt><code>{line, Line}</code></dt> <dd>To specify starting line for scanning in document which contains fragments of XML.</dd> <dt><code>{namespace_conformant, Flag}</code></dt> <dd>Controls whether to behave as a namespace conformant XML parser, <code>false</code> (default) to not otherwise <code>true</code>.</dd> <dt><code>{validation, Flag}</code></dt> <dd>Controls whether to process as a validating XML parser: <code>off</code> (default) no validation, or validation <code>dtd</code> by DTD or <code>schema</code> by XML Schema. <code>false</code> and <code>true</code> options are obsolete (i.e. they may be removed in a future release), if used <code>false</code> equals <code>off</code> and <code>true</code> equals <code>dtd</code>.</dd> <dt><code>{schemaLocation, [{Namespace,Link}|...]}</code></dt> <dd>Tells explicitly which XML Schema documents to use to validate the XML document. Used together with the <code>{validation,schema}</code> option.</dd> <dt><code>{quiet, Flag}</code></dt> <dd>Set to <code>true</code> if Xmerl should behave quietly and not output any information to standard output (default <code>false</code>).</dd> <dt><code>{doctype_DTD, DTD}</code></dt> <dd>Allows to specify DTD name when it isn't available in the XML document. This option has effect only together with <code>{validation,<code>dtd</code>}</code> option.</dd> <dt><code>{xmlbase, Dir}</code></dt> <dd>XML Base directory. If using string/1 default is current directory. If using file/1 default is directory of given file.</dd> <dt><code>{encoding, Enc}</code></dt> <dd>Set default character set used (default UTF-8). This character set is used only if not explicitly given by the XML declaration. </dd> <dt><code>{document, Flag}</code></dt> <dd>Set to <code>true</code> if Xmerl should return a complete XML document as an xmlDocument record (default <code>false</code>).</dd> <dt><code>{comments, Flag}</code></dt> <dd>Set to <code>false</code> if Xmerl should skip comments otherwise they will be returned as xmlComment records (default <code>true</code>).</dd> <dt><code>{default_attrs, Flag}</code></dt> <dd>Set to <code>true</code> if Xmerl should add to elements missing attributes with a defined default value (default <code>false</code>).</dd> <dt><code>{allow_entities, Flag}</code></dt> <dd>Set to <code>true</code> if <code>xmerl_scan</code> shouldn't fail when there is an ENTITY declaration in the XML document (default <code>false</code>).</dd> </dl>


.RE
.B
\fBxmlDocument() :: xmerl:xmlDocument().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Record \fI#xmlDocument{}\fR.

.PP
The record definition is found in \fIxmerl.hrl\fR.


.RE
.B
\fBxmlElement() :: xmerl:xmlElement().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Record \fI#xmlElement{}\fR.

.PP
The record definition is found in \fIxmerl.hrl\fR.


.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBaccumulate_whitespace(Text, global_state(), How, Acc) ->\fR
\fB                               {NewAcc, NewText, global_state()}\fR
\fB                               when\fR
\fB                                   Text :: string(),\fR
\fB                                   How :: preserve | normalize,\fR
\fB                                   Acc :: string(),\fR
\fB                                   NewAcc :: string(),\fR
\fB                                   NewText :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Accumulate and normalize whitespace.


.RE
.B
\fBcont_state(global_state()) -> ContinuationState\fR
\fB                    when ContinuationState :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Fetch the \fIContinuationState\fR.

.PP
See the "Customization functions" tutorial.


.RE
.B
\fBcont_state(ContState :: term(), global_state()) -> global_state().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Set the ContinuationState, to be used in a continuation function.

.PP
The continuation function is called when the parser encounters the end of the byte stream. See the "Customization functions" tutorial.


.RE
.B
\fBevent_state(global_state()) -> EventState\fR
\fB                     when EventState :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Fetch the \fIEventState\fR.

.PP
See the "Customization functions" tutorial.


.RE
.B
\fBevent_state(EventState :: term(), global_state()) ->\fR
\fB                     global_state().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Set the EventState, to be used in an event function.

.PP
The event function is called at the beginning and at the end of a parsed entity. See the "Customization functions" tutorial.


.RE
.B
\fBfetch_state(global_state()) -> FetchState\fR
\fB                     when FetchState :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Fetch the \fIFetchState\fR.

.PP
See the "Customization functions" tutorial.


.RE
.B
\fBfetch_state(FetchState :: term(), global_state()) ->\fR
\fB                     global_state().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Set the FetchState, to be used in a fetch function.

.PP
The fetch function is and called when the parser fetches an external resource (eg. a DTD). See the "Customization functions" tutorial.


.RE
.B
\fBfile(Filename :: string(), option_list()) ->\fR
\fB              {dynamic(), Rest} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB              when Rest :: string(), Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Parse a file containing an XML document


.RE
.B
\fBhook_state(global_state()) -> HookState when HookState :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Fetch the \fIHookState\fR.

.PP
See the "Customization functions" tutorial.


.RE
.B
\fBhook_state(HookState :: term(), global_state()) -> global_state().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Set the HookState, to be used in a hook function.

.PP
The hook function is and called when the parser has parsed a complete entity.  See the "Customization functions" tutorial.


.RE
.B
\fBrules_state(global_state()) -> RulesState\fR
\fB                     when RulesState :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Fetch the \fIRulesState\fR.

.PP
See the "Customization functions" tutorial.


.RE
.B
\fBrules_state(RulesState :: term(), global_state()) ->\fR
\fB                     global_state().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Set the RulesState, to be used in a rules function.

.PP
The rules function is and called when the parser store scanner information in a rules database. See the "Customization functions" tutorial.


.RE
.B
\fBstring(Text :: string(), option_list()) -> {dynamic(), Rest}\fR
\fB                when Rest :: string().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Parse a string containing an XML document


.RE
.B
\fBuser_state(global_state()) -> UserState when UserState :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Fetch the \fIUserState\fR.

.PP
See the "Customization functions" tutorial.


.RE
.B
\fBuser_state(UserState :: term(), G :: global_state()) ->\fR
\fB                    global_state().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Set the \fIUserState\fR, to be used in a user function.

.PP
See the "Customization functions" tutorial.


.RE
