.TH xmerl_xpath 3 "xmerl 2.1.9" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
xmerl_xpath \- Xpath 1.0 search implementation.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fIxmerl_xpath\fR module handles the entire XPath 1.0 spec. XPath expressions typically occur in XML attributes and are used to address parts of an XML document. The grammar is defined in \fIxmerl_xpath_parse.yrl\fR. The core functions are defined in \fIxmerl_xpath_pred.erl\fR.

.PP
Some useful shell commands for debugging the XPath parser

.IP
.nf
 c(xmerl_xpath_scan).
 yecc:yecc("xmerl_xpath_parse.yrl", "xmerl_xpath_parse", true, []).
 c(xmerl_xpath_parse).

 xmerl_xpath_parse:parse(xmerl_xpath_scan:tokens("position() > -1")).
 xmerl_xpath_parse:parse(xmerl_xpath_scan:tokens("5 * 6 div 2")).
 xmerl_xpath_parse:parse(xmerl_xpath_scan:tokens("5 + 6 mod 2")).
 xmerl_xpath_parse:parse(xmerl_xpath_scan:tokens("5 * 6")).
 xmerl_xpath_parse:parse(xmerl_xpath_scan:tokens("-----6")).
 xmerl_xpath_parse:parse(xmerl_xpath_scan:tokens("parent::node()")).
 xmerl_xpath_parse:parse(xmerl_xpath_scan:tokens("descendant-or-self::node()")).
 xmerl_xpath_parse:parse(xmerl_xpath_scan:tokens("parent::processing-instruction('foo')")).


.fi

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBnodeEntity() ::\fR
\fB          xmerl:xmlElement() |\fR
\fB          xmerl:xmlAttribute() |\fR
\fB          xmerl:xmlText() |\fR
\fB          xmerl:xmlPI() |\fR
\fB          xmerl:xmlComment() |\fR
\fB          xmerl:xmlNsNode() |\fR
\fB          xmerl:xmlDocument().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBoption_list() :: [{atom(), term()}].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Options to customize the behaviour of the XPath scanner.

.PP
Possible options are:

.PP
<dl> <dt><code>{namespace, #xmlNamespace}</code></dt> <dd>Set namespace nodes, from XmlNamspace, in xmlContext</dd> <dt><code>{namespace, Nodes}</code></dt> <dd>Set namespace nodes in xmlContext.</dd> </dl>


.RE
.B
\fBparentList() :: [{atom(), integer()}].\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.B
\fBxPathString() :: string().\fR

.br
.RS

.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBstring(String, Node, Parents, Doc, Options) ->\fR
\fB                [nodeEntity()] | Scalar\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    String :: xPathString(),\fR
\fB                    Node :: nodeEntity(),\fR
\fB                    Parents :: parentList(),\fR
\fB                    Doc :: nodeEntity(),\fR
\fB                    Options :: option_list(),\fR
\fB                    Scalar :: #xmlObj{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Extract nodes from a parsed XML tree.

.PP
Extracts the nodes from the parsed XML tree according the XPath \fIString\fR.

.PP
\fIScalar\fR is an \fI#xmlObj{}\fR record record with the fields \fItype\fR and \fIvalue\fR, where \fI#xmlObj.type\fR is \fIboolean | number | string\fR.


.RE
