.TH xmerl_eventp 3 "xmerl 2.1.9" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
xmerl_eventp \- Simple event-based processors (front-ends to \fIxmerl_scan\fR).

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Implements processing XML documents in streams for parsing in SAX style.

.PP
Each front-end contains more elaborate settings of \fIxmerl_scan\fR that makes usage of the customization functions.

.SH DATA TYPES
.LP
.B
\fBoption_list() ::\fR
\fB          [{atom(), term()} |\fR
\fB           {atom(), fun(), term()} |\fR
\fB           {atom(), fun(), fun(), term()}].\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Options allow to customize the behaviour of the scanner.  See also the "Customization functions" tutorial.

.PP
Possible options are:

{acc_fun, Fun}
.RS 2
Call back function to accumulate contents of entity.


.RE
{continuation_fun, Fun} | {continuation_fun, Fun, ContinuationState}
.RS 2
Call back function to decide what to do if the scanner runs into EOF before the document is complete.


.RE
{event_fun, Fun} | {event_fun, Fun, EventState}
.RS 2
Call back function to handle scanner events.


.RE
{fetch_fun, Fun} |{fetch_fun, Fun, FetchState}
.RS 2
Call back function to fetch an external resource.


.RE
{hook_fun, Fun} | {hook_fun, Fun, HookState}
.RS 2
Call back function to process the document entities once identified.


.RE
{close_fun, Fun}
.RS 2
Called when document has been completely parsed.


.RE
{rules, ReadFun, WriteFun, RulesState} | {rules, Rules}
.RS 2
Handles storing of scanner information when parsing.


.RE
{user_state, UserState}
.RS 2
Global state variable accessible from all customization functions


.RE
{fetch_path, PathList}
.RS 2
PathList is a list of directories to search when fetching files. If the file in question is not in the fetch_path, the URI will be used as a file name.


.RE
{space, Flag}
.RS 2

\fIpreserve\fR (default) to preserve spaces, \fInormalize\fR to accumulate consecutive whitespace and replace it with one space.

.RE
{line, Line}
.RS 2
To specify starting line for scanning in document which contains fragments of XML.


.RE
{namespace_conformant, Flag}
.RS 2
Controls whether to behave as a namespace conformant XML parser, 
\fIfalse\fR (default) to not otherwise \fItrue\fR.

.RE
{validation, Flag}
.RS 2
Controls whether to process as a validating XML parser: 
\fIoff\fR (default) no validation, or validation \fIdtd\fR by DTD or \fIschema\fR by XML Schema. \fIfalse\fR and \fItrue\fR options are obsolete (i.e. they may be removed in a future release), if used \fIfalse\fR equals \fIoff\fR and \fItrue\fR equals \fIdtd\fR.

.RE
{schemaLocation, [{Namespace,Link}|...]}
.RS 2
Tells explicitly which XML Schema documents to use to validate the XML document. Used together with the 
\fI{validation,schema}\fR option.

.RE
{quiet, Flag}
.RS 2
Set to 
\fItrue\fR if Xmerl should behave quietly and not output any information to standard output (default \fIfalse\fR).

.RE
{doctype_DTD, DTD}
.RS 2
Allows to specify DTD name when it isn't available in the XML document. This option has effect only together with 
\fI{validation,dtd}\fR option.

.RE
{xmlbase, Dir}
.RS 2
XML Base directory. If using string/1 default is current directory. If using file/1 default is directory of given file.


.RE
{encoding, Enc}
.RS 2
Set default character set used (default UTF-8). This character set is used only if not explicitly given by the XML declaration. 


.RE
{document, Flag}
.RS 2
Set to 
\fItrue\fR if Xmerl should return a complete XML document as an xmlDocument record (default \fIfalse\fR).

.RE
{comments, Flag}
.RS 2
Set to 
\fIfalse\fR if Xmerl should skip comments otherwise they will be returned as xmlComment records (default \fItrue\fR).

.RE
{default_attrs, Flag}
.RS 2
Set to 
\fItrue\fR if Xmerl should add to elements missing attributes with a defined default value (default \fIfalse\fR).

.RE


.RE
.B
\fBxmlElement() :: #xmlElement{}.\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Record \fI#xmlElement{}\fR


.RE
.SH FUNCTIONS
.LP
.B
\fBfile_sax(Fname, CallBackModule, UserState, Options) ->\fR
\fB                  NewUserState\fR
\fB                  when\fR
\fB                      Fname :: string(),\fR
\fB                      CallBackModule :: module(),\fR
\fB                      UserState :: term(),\fR
\fB                      Options :: option_list(),\fR
\fB                      NewUserState :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Parse file containing an XML document, SAX style.

.PP
Wrapper for a call to the XML parser \fIxmerl_scan\fR with a \fIhook_fun\fR for using Xmerl export functionality directly after an entity is parsed.


.RE
.B
\fBstream(Fname, Options) -> {xmlElement(), list()} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                when\fR
\fB                    Fname :: string(),\fR
\fB                    Options :: option_list(),\fR
\fB                    Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Parse file containing an XML document as a stream, DOM style.

.PP
Wrapper for a call to the XML parser \fIxmerl_scan\fR with a \fIcontinuation_fun\fR for handling streams of XML data. Note that the \fIcontinuation_fun\fR, \fIacc_fun\fR, \fIfetch_fun\fR, \fIrules\fR and \fIclose_fun\fR options cannot be user defined using this parser.


.RE
.B
\fBstream_sax(Fname, CallBackModule, UserState, Options) ->\fR
\fB                    {xmerl_scan:document(), Rest} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        Fname :: string(),\fR
\fB                        CallBackModule :: module(),\fR
\fB                        UserState :: term(),\fR
\fB                        Options :: option_list(),\fR
\fB                        Rest :: string(),\fR
\fB                        Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Parse file containing an XML document as a stream, SAX style.

.PP
Wrapper for a call to the XML parser \fIxmerl_scan\fR with a \fIcontinuation_fun\fR for handling streams of XML data.  Note that the \fIcontinuation_fun\fR, \fIacc_fun\fR, \fIfetch_fun\fR, \fIrules\fR, \fIhook_fun\fR, \fIclose_fun\fR and \fIuser_state\fR options cannot be user defined using this parser.


.RE
.B
\fBstring_sax(String, CallBackModule, UserState, Options) ->\fR
\fB                    {xmerl_scan:document(), Rest} | {error, Reason}\fR
\fB                    when\fR
\fB                        String :: list(),\fR
\fB                        CallBackModule :: module(),\fR
\fB                        UserState :: term(),\fR
\fB                        Options :: option_list(),\fR
\fB                        Rest :: string(),\fR
\fB                        Reason :: term().\fR

.br
.RS
.PP
Parse file containing an XML document, SAX style.

.PP
Wrapper for a call to the XML parser \fIxmerl_scan\fR with a \fIhook_fun\fR for using Xmerl export functionality directly after an entity is parsed.


.RE
